AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorMs. Reynolds studies Congress, with an emphasis on how congressional rules and procedure affect domestic policy outcomes.There are certainly bills that have been killed by Democratic filibusters in this Congress — just as there was legislation torpedoed by Republican obstruction during the Obama administration. The need to overcome a filibuster in the Senate on spending bills, and the influence that gives Democrats, was a primary cause of the protracted budget conflict that produced a brief government shutdown in January.But the greater cause of many Republican headaches is substantive divisions within the party. Democrats’ leverage on spending bills has been enhanced by the fact that a bloc of Republicans, especially in the House, generally refuse to support large, omnibus packages like the one Congress passed last month. And on issues where Republicans are capable of legislating without Democratic involvement, disagreements about how to proceed have been the major obstacle. The failed effort to repeal Obamacare using a legislative process that did not require overcoming a filibuster threat stands as the clearest casualty of Republican divisions, but it is not the only one.This year, it appears Republicans will forgo their chance at using the fast-track reconciliation process to make cuts to welfare and other entitlement programs before the midterms, despite calls from some party members to take up such a proposal. Doing so would require getting both an initial budget blueprint and a substantive bill through a Senate where Republicans hold just 51 seats; the prospects of success would likely be slim. The filibuster isn’t making that task hard; a narrow Senate majority and the pressures of an election year are.Intraparty divisions aside, suppose the Senate were to eliminate the filibuster. Key differences in the electoral environments faced by legislators in the two chambers mean the Senate would not simply turn into the House. Senators serve longer terms and represent larger, often more diverse populations than House members, meaning their electoral incentives on a given piece of legislation are distinctive.Take, for example, the debate over the state and local tax deduction in Republicans’ tax bill. Reaching a compromise on the exact nature of a change to that piece of the tax code was key to getting the bill through the House. Republicans from states like New York and New Jersey who represent concentrated blocs of constituents who benefit from the deduction — all of whom would have to run for re-election less than a year after the bill’s passage — forced the issue high on Congress’s agenda. In the Senate, on the other hand, the topic, though not absent from the debate entirely, was not given as much attention. Unlike the demands on some of their House colleagues, there are simply fewer Republican senators — especially from blue states — whose statewide re-election efforts depend on support from voters for whom that issue was salient.Even on areas where vote totals suggest that a Democratic filibuster has killed a Republican policy priority in this Congress, it is difficult to know if members would have behaved exactly the same way if the threshold for passage was lower.The Senate, plagued by limited amendment opportunities of its own, is by no means a beacon of open and deliberative process. But to the extent that individual senators continue to have personal influence in the Senate, the ability to use the filibuster to take bills hostage is one source of it. The filibuster may be an easy target for Republicans irritated with the challenges of governing, but it’s hardly their biggest obstacle.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS