AdvertisementSupported byContributing Opinion WriterCIUDAD JUÁREZ, Mexico — On a sun-scorched prison patio in this sprawling border town, a 23-year-old inmate calmly explained to me how he trafficked hundreds of guns a year from the United States to Mexico. He never bothered paying American citizen straw buyers to purchase the weapons for him, he said. Instead, he would go to one of the many weekend gun shows around Dallas and take advantage of the so-called gun show loophole to buy firearms from private sellers without a background check or proof of citizenship.He would drive back to Mexico with about a dozen guns hidden in refrigerators and stoves in the back of his truck, and sell the weapons in his hometown, a few hours south of the Rio Grande. His most requested weapon, he told me, was the AR-15 semiautomatic rifle, which he could buy for as little as $500 and sell for five times that. He became richer than he had dreamed, buying a house and new trucks and motorbikes.“At the beginning I felt bad, but you get used to it,” he said. “It’s the way you can have a good time. You sell weapons, you earn money and you have fun.” He got caught only because his cousin informed on him after an argument, he said, and he is now serving a nine-year sentence.Of course, Mexico cannot blame American guns for all of its violence. Corrupt politicians and police officers here often work with gangsters; slums with unpaved roads and a lack of hope provide a stream of willing recruits into the cartel armies.Reporting on crime in Mexico for over a decade, I have witnessed the devastation these weapons cause more times than I can count. At a stoplight in the city of Culiacán, I saw the corpses of five police officers whom assailants ambushed and sprayed with more than 400 bullets. I’ve been at crime scenes where the assassins killed their targets while firing hundreds of rounds that mowed down innocent bystanders, including children.Seeing a head torn apart by bullets is traumatic, but the human cost really strikes home with the screams of mothers, brothers and wives crying over the corpses of their loved ones. When young people gathered last month in Washington to denounce gun violence, it was inspiring, but I wished young people had also gathered that day here in Mexico. In the past, hundreds of thousands have marched in Mexico against crime and corruption.The problems of gun violence, drug trafficking and immigration are international in our interconnected world — and we need to work across borders to solve them. Just as Mexico needs to fight the brutal cartels that drive people to flee north, the United States needs to slow the southward flow of this devastating iron river.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS