AdvertisementSupported byQuebec Road TripMONTREAL — Since arriving back in Montreal after nearly three decades abroad, one of the most striking changes I’ve noticed has been the seeming retreat of the separatist movement here. The younger generation seems far more focused on becoming the Quebecois Steve Jobs than in fomenting revolution.Mr. Nadeau-Dubois is a proud left-winger, who compares his politics to that of Bernie Sanders, Jeremy Corbyn or Jean-Luc Mélenchon. He was one of the leaders of the 2012 “Maple Spring,” huge student protests against an increase in university tuition fees that galvanized a generation of young Quebecois. He is also unrepentant about Quebec pursuing its national sovereignty.“Quebec needs to change the rules of the game, and that is not possible when Canada is based on a system in which Queen Elizabeth is the head of state and the constitutional system is centuries old,” he told me on Monday over a coffee in Rosemont-La Petite-Patrie, a gentrifying working-class neighborhood. It is part of the district he represents in the province’s National Assembly as one of three members from his left-wing party, Quebec Solidaire.While he acknowledged that the separatist movement was “not at its peak,” he stressed that about 30 percent to 40 percent of Quebecois supported an independent Quebec, according to recent polls.Moreover, he argued that Quebec’s independence would help neutralize the province’s simmering far right by expunging easy nationalism and xenophobia in favor of cultural affirmation and human rights. Having an independent country, Mr. Nadeau-Dubois said, would mitigate against fear of the other.I’d be interested to hear what younger Canadians think of the separatist movement today. Please share your thoughts with me here, as well other ideas you might have for people I should meet and places I should visit to gain a richer sense of Quebec’s identity today.Mr. Nadeau-Dubois embodies a new strain in Quebecois politics, seeking to tap into the younger generation’s appetite for radicalism and change even as voters worldwide look for alternatives to mainstream political parties. He is a Quebecois anti-Trump for the digital age, using social media to mobilize his legions of young supporters.“We support feminism, indigenous and LGBT rights; we are pro-choice; and we believe that the state must regain control over parts of the economy, including some natural resources,” he said.The son of a unionist activist father and a labor lawyer mother, Mr. Nadeau-Dubois said he received his political education at a young age, at union protests with his parents. Political apathy was not an option.Today, to unwind, he makes couscous and plays floor hockey. He also wrote “In Defiance,” a book about his experiences during the 2012 demonstrations.Asked about his feelings about another young and charismatic politician named Justin Trudeau, Mr. Nadeau-Dubois became visibly agitated, dismissing Mr. Trudeau as a talented retail politician who has little substance.“His progressivism is a facade,” he said. “It is nice words. It is bling bling.”Mr. Nadeau-Dubois said the most emotional moment of the 2012 protests came when a young Lebanese-Canadian woman in a head scarf approached him at a protest where 300,000 people had massed in the streets. He said the young woman told him that, while the strike had divided her family, her mother had come to appreciate its importance as a struggle for accessible education for everyone.“She told me that it was the strike that had made her mom a Quebecois,” he recalled, his face bursting into a smile.Ms. Nottaway is a passionate advocate for Indigenous rights, and I plan to talk to her about the anguish after the killing of Colten Boushie, a 22-year-old Indigenous man shot dead by a Saskatchewan farmer, Gerald Stanley, who was found not guilty of murder.If you have questions for her, or ideas for places I should go to understand Quebec’s Indigenous communities, I’d love to hear from you.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS