AdvertisementSupported byMs. Kamarck is the author of “Primary Politics: Everything You Need to Know About How America Nominates Its Presidential Candidates.”The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has come under fire for interfering in a handful of Democratic primary races around the country. In trying to clear the primary field for the more moderate candidate they think will be the strongest in the general election, party leaders have drawn the anger of some progressive Democrats who think that the mere attempt to do so is corrupt and undemocratic.I beg to differ.No other political parties in democracies in the world have abdicated their leadership role as much as America’s have, weakening themselves and their ability to govern in the process. Party leaders have essentially given away the most important power they have — to determine who can run and win under the party’s banner. This power now rests exclusively with primary voters.This is not to say that there is no role for primaries. But the pendulum between the party’s leaders choosing its candidates and primary voters choosing them has swung so far in the direction of the voters that even the smallest, most modest efforts to intervene in nomination races are deemed illegitimate.But Ms. Byrne, like others on the Democratic left, is unhappy with much of the committee’s interference. Democratic leaders have intervened in, by my count, 14 primary races, suggesting, usually gently, that someone run for a different office or clear the field for a stronger candidate. Is this legitimate?My answer is an unqualified yes. That’s what party leadership is all about.Democratic leaders remember all too well the failure of Republican leaders in 2010 to take control of the Senate. In the 2010 midterm elections it was the Republican Party that was riding high, fueled by the energy of the Tea Party movement and hostility to President Barack Obama’s health care plan. They won the House of Representatives, but while they picked up six seats in the Senate, they came up short of control.The other eight districts average about +6 Republican. In those districts, the right candidate can make all the difference.Left-wing Democrats frequently argue about the need to mobilize the base as a reason to run progressive candidates. But the strongest part of the Democratic base consists of African-Americans, and among the districts the committee has intervened in, only two have an African-American population percentage that is in the double digits; the average is only about 7 percent. The Hispanic population in many of these swing districts is larger, as high as 42 percent, and Democrats may be counting on them to vote Democratic in response to President Trump’s immigration policies.In those districts, the name of the game will be to turn out the Democratic base but also to move some white voters into the Democratic column. If ever there was a year for Democrats to pull this off, 2018 is it — as the special elections of moderates in Virginia, Alabama and Pennsylvania have shown. Progressive Democrats could find themselves celebrating in November if they let the party leaders do their job.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS