AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorMs. Reynolds studies Congress, with an emphasis on how congressional rules and procedure affect domestic policy outcomes.The speaker of the House’s institutional responsibilities date to the founding of our country, but the modern speakership is focused largely on its political roles: protecting the House majority and advancing the party’s policy goals. Success in one dimension — as Speaker Paul Ryan’s decision to retire reflects — does not always translate into success in the other.So let’s assume Mr. Ryan isn’t an exceptional Republican political liability. What about on policy? We can assess his record by looking at what bills the speaker decided to consider in the House. For that, there are two dynamics to assess: One involves keeping things off the agenda that could split the party, even if they could pass the House with votes chipped in from the other party. As Dennis Hastert, a former speaker, put it, “The job of the speaker is not to expedite legislation that runs counter to the wishes of the majority of the majority.” The second dynamic entails advancing policies favored by his party.If Democrats were to take control of the House in November, a postelection departure by Mr. Ryan wouldn’t have been surprising; it’s unusual for a losing speaker to continue to lead his party in the minority. (Ms. Pelosi is a notable exception.) But even if Republicans retain control of the House in November, the challenges presented to Mr. Ryan in terms of racking up policy wins were likely to get worse, not better.The House seats most likely to be lost by Republicans in November are largely held by members who generally cooperate with Mr. Ryan, leaving behind a smaller majority with a more extreme center of gravity. Senate Republicans face kinder headwinds — 10 Democratic incumbents are running for re-election in states that Mr. Trump carried — and are more likely to retain control of their chamber; they may even gain a few seats. But a filibuster-proof Senate majority in 2019 is extremely unlikely, and the level of polarization in the Senate means that building a coalition in the Senate that attracts, say, seven Democratic senators may not be meaningfully different from the current task of garnering the support of nine.Together, these forces would have left Mr. Ryan to deal with a worse version of his current dilemma on must-pass measures like large spending bills: Any measure that can clear the Senate is likely to need some Democratic support in the House to pass.But to avoid the pitfalls that have plagued Mr. Ryan, any Republican successor will be wise to avoid making promises on which he or she can’t deliver.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS