AdvertisementSupported byMELBOURNE, Australia — Australian politics these days feels like a story in People magazine. Political journalism, indeed Parliament itself, has been reduced to a forum for rumors about sex.It all began in February with the sensational news that Barnaby Joyce, then deputy prime minister, had been having an affair with an aide, who is now pregnant. Eventually Mr. Joyce resigned from his leadership post and retreated to the backbench. But the government’s response to the scandal ensured it would linger on.This might seem like a straightforward acknowledgment of the power imbalances within a government official’s office. But in truth it has meant that what might have been a footnote in Australian political history has instead set off the degradation of the country’s political culture.A consensual sexual relationship between a minister and a staff member has become a firing offense, like corruption or a conflict of interest. Every rumor of intra-office sex is now fair game for inquiry from the press and Parliament. Sex is now officially a matter of public interest.This could only have a deleterious effect on politics. And sure enough, that’s what has happened.But the truth is that the “morals lecture” came from Mr. Turnbull. Labor’s response throughout Mr. Joyce’s travails has been studiously amoral, focused on questions of whether his relationship had led him to abuse public funds, or whether the prime minister approved the transfer of Mr. Joyce’s former employee to other ministerial offices. Only when the prime minister made the affair itself a civil wrong by changing the office code of conduct for ministers did he make Ms. Cash’s comments a politically meaningful smear.The real problem here is not that Ms. Cash and Mr. Joyce exercised poor judgment. Politicians have been doing that for centuries. It’s that within this new political culture, Mr. Joyce could expect punishment for a consensual affair, and that Ms. Cash was saying something squarely relevant. Every political journalist now has a duty to explore sexual rumors, and politicians have a duty to investigate them.Mr. Turnbull’s attempt to deal with the power imbalances inherent between ministers and their staff was probably well intentioned. And concern about sex and power in ministers’ offices is utterly reasonable. But we can’t regulate office sexual conduct in a way that doesn’t transform sexual behavior into a matter of public interest. Any rules will be impossible to police except through the most corrosive and intrusive means.And that is before we even consider that to impose a ban like this is to dismiss the agency of the staff members. And it ignores the many perfectly sound relationships to come from such unbalanced circumstances.A policy that makes office sex a legitimate focus of journalistic and even political energy promises to do a major disservice in the long run. Australian politics might have become a little more sensationalistic through all this. And it has gotten a little smaller, too.Waleed Aly is a columnist and broadcaster and a politics lecturer at Monash University in Melbourne.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS