AdvertisementSupported bySYDNEY, Australia — Australia’s boys-club political culture appeared in recent weeks to receive a healthy dose of #MeToo disruption.The scandal surrounding Mr. Joyce even prompted Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull to ban members of Parliament from having sex with their subordinates — the first time in five years that the rules on ministerial conduct had been updated.But according to women who work in the halls of Australian power, the scandals in February were but a tiny sampling of the pervasive culture of sexual harassment endemic to the country’s politics.“It was clear that a bully boy culture had accumulated over many, many years,” said Ellen Sandell, a Greens politician and member of the Victorian State Parliament. “It’s got to start somewhere.”That culture of harassment and protection for powerful men, women say, has prevented more accusers from speaking publicly about encounters with politicians. It has also, they say, stymied a more robust #MeToo movement — akin to those that have rattled Washington and Hollywood — from taking hold.“I know it prevented a number of other victims and witnesses’ feeling safe to come forward,” said Tessa Sullivan, a former Melbourne City Council member who accused Mr. Doyle of harassment. “A number of politicians knew about my abuse and tried to deter me from speaking out.”Australia’s universities are in the early phases of a reckoning.Over the past few years, students at the University of Sydney, Australian National University and on several other campuses have mobilized against “rape culture,” drawing attention to a lack of punishment for sexual assault and harassment.How are public institutions in Australia responding to sexual assault and sexual harassment? To inform our coverage, we’re asking readers to contribute their stories.Many Australian women a generation removed said it was at least as bad or worse during their student days. And, they said, the culture of student politics did not help.Each of Australia’s main political parties has an active youth wing — the Young Liberals promote themselves to anyone ages 16 to 31; Young Labor focuses on anyone under 26 — and their efforts often overlap with on-campus campaigns.Many lawmakers started out in this milieu, with student bodies or union boards, before moving to staffing roles, party offices or legislatures. Three of Australia’s five most recent prime ministers — Malcolm Turnbull, Tony Abbott and John Howard — began their political careers as students at the University of Sydney.Regular gatherings of young people in politics — like the annual National Union of Students conference in December — are also notorious for alcohol-fueled inappropriate behavior.“At one of them, a Queensland Labor man threatened to rape me as I was walking back to my room,” said Tammy Franks, a Greens member of the South Australian Legislative Council, who was active in student politics in the ’90s. “I was on the sexual harassment and grievance committee, and there was a lot of that type of behavior.”Politicians have carried their university-bred attitudes up the ranks for decades.Jacqui Munro, a former Liberal staff member in New South Wales who joined the party in 2011, says the “mixture of older adults and young staffers” in many political workplaces can produce situations where professional and personal boundaries are poorly defined.Mr. Joyce, the deputy prime minister, ended up having an extramarital affair with a younger member of his staff — that’s the extreme. But there are other problems with combining power, proximity and desire.“Closeness can sometimes be misread, especially if alcohol’s involved,” Ms. Munro said. “People can be inappropriately handsy, and sometimes get away with things because it’s considered a bit too difficult to manage in a long-term sense. You just sort of address it quietly.”Ms. Sullivan, the former Melbourne council member whose allegation helped topple the city’s mayor (he denies the accusation), said women working in Australian politics frequently warn one another privately about male colleagues’ conduct, but are often reluctant to accuse their harassers publicly.“Female politicians,” she said, understand that they have “to take steps to protect themselves from being violated.”The threats and abuse span parties and states.In South Australia, Ms. Franks said she, too, sees signs of a “toxic culture.”“People act like spoiled teenagers, and because they have a lot of power they think they can get away with it,” she said. “It’s like ‘Mean Girls’ in reverse. ‘Mean Blokes.’”Australia’s main political parties, in the wake of scandal after scandal, have said they are trying to improve their relations with women.But with the issue confronted only weakly for years, many women in and out of Australian politics say the country must do more to hold men accountable at every phase of life — and to ensure that women are not pushed aside by a culture of abuse.“My advice for women who wish to join politics is to find your voice before joining,” Ms. Sullivan said. “You will need bravery.”But, she added, “please do give it a go, because we need more women to help shape the world we all live in.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS