AdvertisementSupported byFirst WordsEvery few weeks, an email arrives from the Republican National Committee, requesting my attention to a matter of great national consequence. “Approval Poll Response: PENDING” is the subject line of the latest. “The President has asked us to reach out to some of our top supporters for a one-question poll,” it begins. “The President’s job performance has been ...” There are four possible responses: “great,” “good,” “O.K.” or “other.”“Thank you for your input, Friend,” the email concludes. “We’ll be sure to pass it along to President Trump.”He is not the first modern president to obsess over these ratings, but the nature of his obsession is different. Presidents from Lyndon Johnson to George W. Bush spoke bluntly about approval as a means to an end. For Trump, approval seems to be the end. His primary pre-presidential business was, quite literally, being popular, and now that he is in the White House, mass approval is the one thing that is consistently denied to him. There is something oddly poignant about the R.N.C. email polls; they’re like the birthday card that a middle manager hustles the hourly employees to sign for a company president who everyone knows has just gone through a rough divorce.What’s most bizarre about this particular manifestation of Trump’s exhausting, relentless need for external affirmation, though, is how ill placed it is. No president has ever been so publicly consumed with his approval numbers. And no president has ever had less reason to care about them.We have George Gallup, the originator of the Gallup poll, to thank for this ambiguity. An Iowa-born journalism professor and advertising consultant, Gallup spent years pondering what question might best assess presidential performance — separating it, in the minds of poll respondents, from considerations like voting preference and personal affinity — before arriving in 1945 at the wording Gallup and other pollsters have used ever since. Frank Newport, Gallup’s current editor in chief, explains that the “approve or disapprove” question is expansive by design. “When you vote, you have an up or down choice on a candidate, right?” he told me. “You don’t have a nuanced choice.” Or, as Gallup himself put it in 1940, in a sort of civics-class koan, “the limitations and the shortcomings of the polls are the limitations and shortcomings of public opinion itself.”This rankled Daniel J. Boorstin, the conservative historian and social critic, who criticized Gallup in his 1962 book, “The Image.” Boorstin described public-opinion research as “a kind of pseudo-event, forced into existence for the primary purpose of being reported” — an unreal thing with real consequences. What “approval” measures in a presidency may be hard to pin down, but what it gets you is not: Higher numbers have historically meant more effective dealings with Congress — whose leaders read approval polls as a measure of their leverage with the president — and better chances of re-election.And yet there is a wealth of research showing that “approval” is largely, if not entirely, beyond a president’s control. In 2002, the political scientists Robert S. Erikson, Michael B. Mackuen and James A. Stimson found that more than half of the variance in a president’s approval ratings could be explained by either the performance of the national economy or by big events like international crises, assassination attempts and scandals — factors over which a president may not exert much influence at all. Jimmy Carter gained 20 points when Iranian student demonstrators occupied the United States Embassy in Tehran. Ronald Reagan picked up seven after being shot.None of this has dissuaded presidents from trying to influence their own approval ratings. Reagan was the first to bring a public-opinion expert, Richard Wirthlin, onto the White House team. Wirthlin’s firm went on to test public opinion for George H.W. Bush in the lead-up to the Persian Gulf war; Dick Cheney, at the time Bush’s defense secretary, would later grumble in his memoirs that Colin Powell, then the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “seemed more comfortable talking about poll numbers than he was recommending military options.” As the war approached its conclusion, crowds of supporters were ushered onto the White House lawn with signs trumpeting Bush’s approval rating: “WE ♥ GEORGE — 91%.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS