He has been president for more than a year — so why is he still holding rallies?Saccone took the stage briefly before Trump did, and his people were circulating in the hangar: normal-looking suburban Republican operatives and volunteers of the sort who are still jarring to see attached to the Trump roadshow, like insurance-claims adjusters piled into the bed of a monster truck. But this was a Trump event in spirit: the email advisory from Donald J. Trump for President Inc., his official presidential campaign committee, described it as a “campaign rally” but did not mention Saccone, explaining instead that Trump would “highlight the benefits that his historic tax cuts are providing hard-working families across Pennsylvania and to celebrate our booming economy now that America is once again open for business.” Onstage, Trump seemed to intermittently remember the tax cuts and the booming economy, and even more intermittently that he was supposed to be promoting the candidate, whom he had reportedly derided in private as “weak.” But he mostly did what he usually does at his rallies: recite the latest verse of the ballad of Donald Trump, the president who would be doing great things for the people in this room were it not for his many antagonists.This evening, he was talking about Peggy Noonan, the conservative Wall Street Journal columnist. (“She’s a Bushie!” an older man next to me yelled scornfully.) Noonan had apparently written something, or (more likely) said something on cable news, where she appears often as a pearl-necklaced avatar of political normalcy, about Trump’s appearing inadequately presidential. “I’m very presidential!” Trump told us, with mock indignation. Then he stiffened in his suit and adopted a stentorian tone, like a fourth grader doing an impression of his school principal. “Laaaadies and gentlemen,” he intoned, “thank you for being here tonight. Rick Saccone will be a great, great congressman. He will help me very much. He’s a fine man, and Yong is a wonderful wife. I just want to tell you on behalf of the United States of America that we appreciate your service. And to all of the military out there, we respect you very much. Thank you. Thank you.” He broke character for a second: “And then you go, ‘God bless you, and God bless the United States of America, thank you very much.’ ” He turned and faced the V.I.P. guests in the riser behind him, and did a sort of rigid penguin walk.The crowd whooped and laughed — not the cruel laughter you come to know at Trump rallies but real belly laughter, for what was a genuinely funny bit. Trump, who loves nothing more than being loved, kept penguin-walking, and everyone kept laughing. It took a few more seconds for the spectacular strangeness of the moment to settle in: We were watching a sitting American president imitating an American president.AdvertisementExcept now, he wasn’t. Watching Trump step into the archetype momentarily and then just as quickly step out, it hit me: Even in Trump’s mind, that president was someone else, somewhere else. It was as if I were sitting on a commercial flight, at cruising altitude, when the pilot suddenly plopped down in the next seat, commiserated about the tarmac delays and poor in-flight service, then popped an Ambien and went to sleep.AdvertisementBy the time the first dates of the tour were announced, on Nov. 29, it had been tactfully rechristened a “thank-you tour”: nine rallies in nine states throughout December. “I was with the advance team yesterday, and they’re showing me all the different places he’s going in the next two weeks,” Anthony Scaramucci, at the time a member of the executive committee of Trump’s transition team, told the Fox Business Network’s Maria Bartiromo. “This is a guy who doesn’t give up.”He didn’t: After taking a few weeks in January and February to be inaugurated and acquaint himself with the business of running the country, Trump held another rally. He has been holding them regularly ever since, sometimes as often as twice a month. His itinerary has not once diverged from the states on his electoral map; he had been to the exact same hangar in Moon two days before winning Pennsylvania in 2016. There have been 20 rallies in all, give or take a couple that might be construed as more conventional presidential appearances — though it is hard for even these to not take on the character of a Trump rally when he takes the stage. They amount to one of the few sustained, continuous projects of his presidency, and represent a genuinely novel contribution to the theater of American politics: a “Basement Tapes” of the Trump years, a never-ending tour with stakes perpetually hazy and unclear.From the beginning, I thought it would be important to witness these rallies, and I went as often as I could. Whenever I did, I was confronted with the question of what it was, precisely, that I expected to witness. Was it the people who turned out to see him? I was curious, at first, who they would be — who would show up for what were, in effect, campaign rallies for a campaign that ended months ago. I interviewed them, diligently filling notebooks:I walked in here, somebody told me to [expletive] off. I’m a Nazi ’cause I’m going in here. This guy outside, he says, ‘Nazis should die!’ O.K., I’m with you! I’m on the same side! I’m not a [expletive] Nazi!I liked everybody but Trump and Ted Cruz. But because he was our nominee, I voted for him. I’ve warmed up to him. I just wish he would, uh, calm it down a little bit? With the tweeting?But you’ve read all this before, haven’t you? The spectrum of people at these rallies was not appreciably different from the spectrum at Trump’s actual campaign rallies, which was itself fairly representative of the broader rallygoing Republican electorate in 2016 — and interviewing people at campaign events, as every reporter believes secretly but is not allowed to admit, is almost always a waste of time for everyone involved in the exchange, like asking Mets fans at a Mets game why they like the Mets.These rallies rarely produced news, and what news they produced was usually limited to something Trump said, which meant you could just as easily cover it from the comfort of your own couch, thanks to the handful of live-broadcasting TV crews that was always packed onto a riser in the back of the venue. These people served double duty as a hate totem for the events, the most reliable targets for ritual humiliation from the stage. Huddled around their tripods, buffeted by thousands of boos and obscenities, they called to mind weathercasters lashed to telephone poles, early-Dan Rather-style, in a hurricane. Their footage, chopped up and YouTubed and GIFed and John Olivered, would be injected into the infinitely subdividing capillaries of social-media outrage in near real time. Sometimes at the rallies, I would look at these camera crews and then open Twitter on my phone, watch it welling up with cascades of disbelief at whichever deliberately disbelief-inducing thing Trump had just said, and wonder what the point of any of us being there was.Only a man like this could conceive of a permanent campaign, extending infinitely after Election Day, as something desirable. From the first, the postelection rallies were bemoaned as, at best, a waste of presidential time, but this missed their peculiar intimacy. To feel as if you were witnessing something essential and true about Barack Obama, you would have had to see him alone in his study late at night. To witness the same of Trump, you have to stand among thousands gathered to see him — and see him seeing you seeing him.AdvertisementThis was in Melbourne, Fla., last February — Trump’s first rally after taking office. He was in Mar-a-Lago mode, open-collared and visibly at ease, more so than he had been at any point since Inauguration Day. Five days earlier, Michael Flynn, his national security adviser, had resigned over Flynn’s contacts with Russian officials, and Trump had asked the F.B.I. director, James Comey, to stop investigating him. One of the largest single-day demonstrations in American history had been staged in protest of Trump — less as a president than as a human being — dwarfing his own inauguration’s attendance. His travel ban was gummed up in federal court. But this wasn’t Washington, or the Fourth Circuit; it was Florida, “my second home,” as Trump had described it. “Come here — let him up, I’m not worried about him,” he said as the man made his way to the stage. “Hop over the fence! He can do it — look, this guy’s in great shape. This guy is great — don’t worry about him.”The man’s name, it would later be ascertained, was Gene Huber. He was a car salesman from Boynton Beach, very tan, with a close-cropped corona of graying hair, in good shape just as the president said, wearing a commemorative T-shirt from Trump’s inauguration featuring the same presidential seal as the lectern behind which he now embraced Trump in a bear hug. “This guy! He’s been all over television, saying the best things,” Trump said. “Say a couple words.”“Mr. President, thank you, sir!” Huber said, slightly wild-eyed with adrenaline, looking not at Trump but at the cameras. “We the people, our movement, is the reason why our president of the United States is standing in front of us today. When President Trump, during the election, promised all these things he was going to do for us, I knew he was going to do this for us.”“It is great to be back in the incredible, beautiful, great state of Iowa!” Trump said, as he took the stage in Cedar Rapids the following evening. “Home of the greatest wrestlers in the world, including our friend Dan Gable — some of the great, great wrestlers of the world, right? We love those wrestlers.”It was five months into his presidency by then, and five rallies. In Nashville in March, Trump railed against the judge in Hawaii who issued an injunction against his revised travel ban — “This ruling makes us look weak!” — and against his own staff, which had advised him to revise it in the first place. Five days later, the same day James Comey was testifying before the House Intelligence Committee about Russian interference in the 2016 election, Trump was at another rally, this time in Louisville, Ky., talking about Colin Kaepernick: “There was an article today that reported that N.F.L. owners don’t want to pick him up because they don’t want to get a nasty tweet from Donald Trump!”The rallies had ceased to be the curiosity they were at first. Out of basic psychological necessity, if nothing else, the country was learning to metabolize the Trump presidency’s daily news barrage, of which the rallies were but one minor component, another assaultive stream of words and images entering the public consciousness in a disembodied, decontextualized way: Here was Trump, shouting somewhere. At the events, you would be reminded, with some surprise, that these moments occurred at fixed coordinates in space and time, as opposed to simply materializing in the news cycle in which the country was now trapped, 24 hours a day, by virtue of Trump’s own unwavering attention to it.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The texture of this was familiar to anyone who watched Trump during the campaign. The conventional speech was there, nominally, a formal structure around which Trump improvised, embroidering it with anecdotes that may or may not have happened, turning over parts of the speech in the light and opening up the back end of it to show the audience, to let them in on the secrets, to convey a sense that he was leveling with the people who had the good sense to be there at that moment, offering a sensation of truth if not always the complete thing (Iowa’s state health-insurance exchange had lost most of its providers, but not all of them). It was fun to listen to, because Trump — and this is still perhaps the most incredible thing about his candidacy, in retrospect — was somehow the first politician in however many decades of modern American political oratory to capitalize on the fact that nobody likes listening to modern American political oratory.AdvertisementThere was also a dissonance to these speeches, however, now that Trump had settled into his presidency. Before the election, his subversion of the forms of American politics served to underscore the basic argument of his campaign, which was that America’s problems could be solved easily if you overthrew the country’s governing class, with all their idiocies of convention. But Trump and his voters had done exactly that, and America’s problems had not instantly disappeared. One of Trump’s more reliable impulses is evading responsibility, and he spent much of these speeches herding together the scapegoats — the media, the recalcitrant Democrats, the F.B.I., the system — who might account for his situation, without appearing to realize that he was drawing the self-portrait of a man who had wanted power but gotten authority instead.The afternoon before the rally, I was settling into my seat in an American Airlines Airbus on the runway in Charlotte, N.C., when the pilot got on the intercom: “If everyone could take their seats quickly, please,” he said, a note of apologetic bewilderment in his voice, “we’re trying to beat Air Force One into Phoenix today.” Trump, he explained, was due into Phoenix around the same time we were. “If we don’t get in ahead of them, we’re going to be put in a holding pattern.”A groan went up from the passengers. “I got held up in Florida by Air Force One for four hours,” a woman sitting behind me grumbled.Across the aisle, an older man was saying something about Joe Biden and his Secret Service entourage taking up whole cars on Amtrak between Washington and Wilmington. “I’m just saying,” he protested, “both sides do this!” And so we hurtled west in our climate-controlled specimen vial of the national argument, trying desperately to outrun the man at the center of it.It was 107 degrees in Phoenix, and outside the downtown convention center paramedics with IV bags balanced on their shoulders were tending to rallygoers who had succumbed to the heat; an elderly woman in a Hawaiian shirt had toppled out of the V.I.P. line and was vomiting on the pavement. Inside, I passed a man wearing pleated khaki slacks and a sweat-drenched sleeveless undershirt with an American flag draped over his shoulders, serape-style, as if he were on his way to see Mad Max’s keynote address at CPAC. It was possible that the events in Charlottesville had depressed turnout, but it seemed just as possible that it was the heat, and the prospect of waiting outside for hours in it to file into a convention center that, when I got inside, was full, but not packed as other rallies had been.Trump recited from all of his post-Charlottesville news releases; he had them printed out. “I said, ‘Racism is evil.’ Now they only choose, you know, like a half a sentence here or there, and then they just go on this long rampage, or they put on these real lightweights all around a table that nobody ever heard of, and they all say what a bad guy I am. But I mean, do you ever see anything — and then you wonder why CNN is doing relatively poorly in the ratings. Because they’re putting like seven people all negative on Trump! And they fired Jeffrey Lord — poor Jeffrey. Jeffrey Lord.”AdvertisementThe crowd cheered for its newfound elitism, but the energy in the room was sagging palpably. It had been a long, hot day. They were still heckling the TV people in the media pen, but it felt unfocused, pro forma. “So the point is — and I didn’t want to bore you, because you understand where I’m coming from. You people understand. But the point is, that those were three different — there were two statements and one news conference. The words were perfect. They only take out anything they can think of, and for the most part, all they do is complain. But they don’t put on those words. And they don’t put on me saying those words.”The adjective I instinctively reached for, watching it, was “Nixonian,” but even Nixon generally confined this kind of thing to the White House tapes. Trump’s very public spleen-venting more closely resembled that of Andrew Johnson, Abraham Lincoln’s vice president and the reluctant and disastrous steward of Reconstruction after his death. In February 1866, after Congress tried and failed to override Johnson’s veto of a law providing federal protections for freed slaves, he gave an impromptu speech to his supporters in which he compared his Senate antagonists to Confederate generals, fulminated about supposed assassination plots against him, and in the space of barely an hour, used his own name more than 200 times. Congress impeached him two years later.“This was a Castro speech in length,” Rick Wilson, the Republican strategist, was saying on the CNN-equipped flat screens at the Phoenix airport as I waited for my flight home. “It was an astounding chain of lies tied together by a man who obviously is mentally unstable.” David Jolly, the former Republican congressman from Florida, told MSNBC’s Chris Hayes the next day: “Listen, there is no moral equivalency between this president and some of the dictators we’ve seen in the Dark Ages of the Middle East and other places around the globe. But the politics of some of those dark dictators was to always have an enemy. And that is what this president has modernized.”It is true that it is hard to get through a Trump rally now without thinking of the Philippines’ Rodrigo Duterte, Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan or the other authoritarians for whom Trump has openly expressed his admiration. And yet, watching Trump onstage in Phoenix, the instincts he was following seemed to be much more those of an entertainer than those of a demagogue. It had the feel of being in the studio audience for an unusually angry late-night host’s opening monologue. He was a guy on a stage, improvising, trying to hold the crowd, toggling between the riskier material and the easy applause lines, trying to figure out what they liked and how to give them more of it. The applause for clean coal was tepid, so he moved on to Joe Arpaio. He talked about Jonathan Gruber, the economist who helped design the Affordable Care Act, but no one seemed to know who that was, so he reached into the tangle of Fox News chyrons balled up in the back of his head and came up with something about all the people who wanted to tear down George Washington statues, and the crowd roared its indignation at this movement that did not, in any meaningful sense, exist.These moments have political consequences, but when you are watching them in person, the imperatives at play seem mostly emotional; the needs on display are raw and visible, and curiously small. But then you see the same speech on a screen, outside the reality-impeding Faraday cage of the rally venue, and you are reminded that this is the president: that he commands a nuclear arsenal and a legal system that can put people in jail or throw them out of the country and a surveillance apparatus of godlike omniscience and an unshakably loyal third, at least, of the American population. The man is trying for “The Tonight Show” and it comes out as Hugo Chavez’s “Aló Presidente.”Trump does not speak to history except in extremely rare cases, like his Inaugural Address or his State of the Union address, in which circumstances absolutely, nonnegotiably force him to do so. Otherwise he is always speaking to a proximate audience; unlike other presidents, the speaking, not the speech, is the point. The words would make little sense without their immediate social context. To be a member of his audience is to feel valued, part of an intimate and privileged “you” defined in relation to some broader population: Gene Huber’s “we the people” rather than the Constitution’s.Advertisement“Do you like me?” he asked us in the airplane hangar in Moon. He looked like he was feeling good — certainly better than in Phoenix. There was talk of his finally escaping the padded cell of convention and expertise that had half-contained his presidency. Gary Cohn, his chief economic adviser, and Hope Hicks, his communications director and human security blanket, had recently tendered their resignations. In three days he would fire — or rather, order fired — his secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, and not long after that, his acting F.B.I. director, Andrew McCabe, and his national security adviser, H.R. McMaster. The White House lawyer who had been advising him on the Russia investigation, John Dowd, would quit. We — he and we, together — were forging deeper into the unknown, and it seemed to exhilarate him.Go to Home Page »