AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.How far away those days seem. What happened to this optimism? Why has the momentum toward democracy and international comity slowed? Why, as Madeleine Albright asks early in her new book, “are we once again talking about fascism?”Albright does this via an examination of cases in Europe and America from World War I through the present day. From this, some patterns emerge.While the turmoil in Europe after World War I was extreme, Albright notes similar dynamics in other places and times: Hugo Chávez’s recent rise to power was fueled by deteriorating social and economic conditions and growing inequality in Venezuela; Viktor Orban came to power as Hungary was experiencing the painful fallout of the financial crisis; and Vladimir Putin emerged as Russia was in the midst of economic and national decline similar to that experienced by interwar Germany. (During the 1990s Russia’s economy shrank by more than half.)But problems only become opportunities for fascists and other antidemocrats if their opponents can’t or won’t address them. A second factor emerging from Albright’s cases is weak and divided oppositions. In interwar Italy liberal governments dithered while the country slid into chaos and the two largest parties, the Socialists and Christian Democrats, were more interested in defending the interests of their particular constituencies than democracy. In the Weimar Republic, the country’s largest party, the Social Democrats, was more committed to democracy than its Italian counterpart, but it too faltered during the Great Depression and was continually attacked by antidemocratic left- and right-wing forces. While their opponents fought among themselves and let their country’s troubles deepen, fascists offered voters simple explanations of their problems in the form of enemies like nefarious foreign powers or Jews, and simple solutions to them, namely replacing weak and unresponsive democracies with strong dictatorships truly responsive to “the people.” Adolf Hitler once explained: “I will tell you what has carried me to the position I have reached. Our political problems appeared complicated. The German people could make nothing of them. … I, on the other hand … reduced them to the simplest terms. The masses realized this and followed me.”Finally, Albright’s cases reveal a third factor in fascism’s rise: the connivance of conservatives. In both interwar Italy and Germany conservatives believed they could control fascism and use its popular support to achieve their own goals. In Italy King Victor Emmanuel III and in Germany President Paul von Hindenburg were persuaded by conservative advisers to hand power over to Mussolini and Hitler, respectively, even though neither had won electoral majorities.So where does this leave us today? There are worrying parallels: Although the situation is not nearly as dire as the interwar period, Western democracy currently faces significant challenges. To avoid having these snowball into the type of crisis fascism feeds off, Albright hopes antifascists will learn from history. In the United States this means Democrats and Republicans must work together again to solve our country’s problems — and Republicans must not allow the fervidness of Trump’s supporters to blind them to the danger to democracy that he represents.There are international parallels and lessons as well. During the interwar years Europe’s problems were aggravated by America’s withdrawal from the global stage; Albright worries that Trump’s isolationism, protectionism and fondness for dictators are eroding America’s ability to lead and help solve international challenges, deepening divisions within the West and emboldening antidemocratic forces.Sheri Berman is a professor of politics at Barnard College, Columbia University. Her book “Democracy and Dictatorship in Europe: From the Ancien Régime to the Present Day” is forthcoming.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS