AdvertisementSupported byOn the BorderAs I sat at the market in Ciudad Juárez on a weekday in January, it all seemed so familiar: The clanking of the reusable glass bottles; the greeter hollering for visitors to sit in his corner of the restaurant; the smell of grease meandering through the upstairs eatery where Axl Rose was screaming at me from a jukebox. All this while vendors downstairs sold T-shirts with the image of the late singer Juan Gabriel emblazoned across the chest while others negotiated with visitors over the price of a homemade poncho featuring the logo of the Dallas Cowboys.The images of daylong excursions to Ciudad Juárez with my father as a child made their way into my memory, where they collided with the flashbacks of a teenage me sharing buckets of beers with friends who were convinced that going south of the border for a day was more important than sitting through biology.I was one of tens of thousands to cross into Mexico from El Paso that week, challenging the notion that lawlessness in Mexican border cities keeps Americans at bay (but gone are the days of oral declarations; a passport is now required to re-enter the United States as the federal government continues to beef up border enforcement).Even in tougher times, many of us never stopped coming here. It is because there are thousands of El Pasoans like me whose ties that bind them to Ciudad Juárez are familial or economic, or both. The effects reverberate well north of the Rio Grande. Texas is Mexico’s No. 1 trade partner, and the El Paso customs district saw $85.5 billion in two-way trade with Mexico, from January to November 2017. That is the second-highest total in the United States behind Laredo’s $270 billion.Both are open to the public, and are just two of the museums and tourist attractions city officials and street vendors hope will lure visitors back to a city considered by lawmakers and human rights groups as one of the world’s most dangerous just six years ago.Photographs of Mexican revolutionary figures like Francisco Madero, Venustiano Carranza and Francisco “Pancho” Villa in different areas of revolutionary Juárez highlight the importance of the city during the war. There is also an emphasis on how the Americans were responsible for some of the mayhem. Such is the case with the exhibition dedicated to Gen. John J. Pershing, who led his so-called “Punitive Expedition” in pursuit of Villa after the Mexican rebel leader led his forces into Columbus, N.M.And although the writers John Reed and Ambrose Bierce are perhaps the most widely known Americans who were fascinated enough by the war in Mexico to become a part of it, the M.U.R.E.F. instead dedicates space to local photographers and writers like Melville Jean Herskovits, Harvey Kiefer and Esther Eva Strauss, whose curiosity and dedication to photojournalism helped document the war for readers in Texas and beyond.After leaving the museum and walking back toward downtown’s Paso Del Norte bridge, I realized there remains a sense of adventure associated with going into Ciudad Juárez, which I assume could still be slightly overwhelming for new visitors. Though violence has decreased significantly, the sight of a federal police truck carrying masked soldiers clutching semiautomatic rifles can still be somewhat jarring to visitors who are not accustomed to it.I spotted two of these conducting routine patrols before my last stop on this day trip: the Kentucky Club. The bar has been in business since the 1920s and was frequented by Americans in need of a beer, whiskey or tequila during Prohibition. It has retained its reputation as a laid-back place for patrons on both sides of the Rio Grande, and was one of the few pubs that didn’t shut its doors during the drug cartel wars that raged in the city from 2008 to 2011. You can stay here for a beer or two, or one of their famous margaritas, or spend hours on end reading about its famous patrons and watching the flat-screen televisions above the hand-carved wooden bar. As the evening wears on, available seats are fewer and the music louder.Farther away from the cathedral and the museums Ciudad Juárez offers up more for visitors willing to take a cab, Uber or drive themselves into the city.Villa del Mar was a family favorite growing up. The owners opened a branch in El Paso after the drug violence began but the original location is still up and running in Ciudad Juárez.This was my first time at Los Arcos, recommended by a family friend. A delectable dish of bacon-wrapped stuffed shrimp, a beer and a bottle of water was less than 350 pesos, or about $19.Much of El Paso’s identity is rooted in its remoteness. It is in a different time zone than most of Texas. It is closer to the capitals of three other states — Arizona, New Mexico and Chihuahua — than it is to Austin. It is surrounded by mountains and desert that offer few clear distinctions as to where the city in Texas ends and the one in Mexico begins.I was born and raised here. My mom’s house is in the Austin Terrace neighborhood and my father’s house was two blocks from the eastern foothills of the Franklin Mountains, in a part of the city that used to be called Chivas Town (so named because it was where goat farmers lived before the neighborhood was incorporated by the city).After moving away for school and work for a number of years, I realized I had not taken advantage of what the Franklin Mountains had to offer. So when I came back, I set out to explore the hiking trails and mountain peaks my friends brag about on social media during their bike rides and other excursions.The base, one of the largest in the country, is home to the First Armored Division of the United States Army and spreads across Texas and New Mexico on more than a million acres of federally owned land. Its history is on view at the Old Ironsides Museum on the base, which features exhibits about the history of the base and the division, and rationing efforts by Americans during World War II. A plaque next to an Abrams M1 tank honors Sgt. Israel Devora Garcia, who was born in Zacatecas, Mexico, and raised in nearby Clint, Tex. He died in combat operations in Iraq in 2006. (Admission to the museum is free. Visitors must get a pass to the base before entering; it’s easy but can be time-consuming on weekends.)Fort Bliss is one reason so many El Pasoans are so patriotic (one of the city’s main highways, Route 54, was designated the Patriot Freeway during the first Gulf War).In addition to mountains, desert sunsets and the legend of Pancho Villa, residents of both Ciudad Juárez and El Paso have something the rest of the other cities along the Rio Grande don’t: New Mexico.Because it is on the border, the entertainment doesn’t consist of Elvis impersonators or a tribute to the Rat Pack. It is something with more of a local flavor — a live mariachi band.Julián Aguilar reports on politics and border affairs for The Texas Tribune.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS