AdvertisementIs it possible that anger qualifies, at this point, as a national pastime? It roils our cultural dialogue, poisons social media and — as is frequently, and somewhat helplessly, observed — it curdles much of our politics into a zero-sum game of tribal loathing. It is the predictable response to almost any new development, significant or otherwise: Whatever happens, someone’s fury will most likely rise to meet it, and in the right conditions, it will gather quickly into an entire campaign of “backlash.”Last July, a Google engineer named James Damore wrote an internal memo criticizing what he saw as “authoritarian” diversity practices at the tech giant, suggesting along the way that women and men might be biologically suited to different professional roles. He was swiftly fired, but the furor the episode created in Silicon Valley spilled rapidly outward. While Google executives rushed to condemn the memo and reaffirm their commitment to an inclusive workplace, alt-right provocateurs were embracing Damore as a political martyr, harassed out of his job by an oppressive and hypocritical liberal machine. What began as a question of corporate values quickly transformed into a larger skirmish between competing perceptions of who actually wields power in America.Damore would go on to file a class-action suit claiming that conservative white men were systematically discriminated against at Google, including as evidence colleagues’ aggressive responses to his memo — a reaction The Guardian characterized as an “internal backlash.” Many of Damore’s co-workers, of course, had credibly argued that the only systematic discrimination here was found in Damore’s memo itself: “You have just created a textbook hostile workplace environment,” wrote one former colleague upon reading it. The Financial Times saw “backlash” in a whole separate layer of reaction: the flurry of vitriol and threats directed at Google from conservative activists, which compelled management to cancel a town-hall meeting on diversity issues.AdvertisementThere are obvious differences in the types of power each side of this conflict could credibly suggest the other possessed. But the dynamics involved are typical, and you can spot them in any number of contentious issues. One faction positions itself as a beleaguered voice of dissent, bravely pushing back against some draconian orthodoxy. The other sees itself as battling a society already suffused in this supposedly “dissenting” viewpoint. Each side looks at the world around it and sees, for the most part, the flourishing of the other. It’s less a culture war than a war over who’s already winning.Advertisement“It is a pop-culture law that everything generates a backlash,” The Ringer observed earlier this year, before pointing out that the ensuing cycles of opinion — from initial hype to stubborn critiques to indignant defenses — were now so familiar they could be predicted with almost scientific precision. It went on to do exactly that for “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” a film about which you could eventually find some people arguing “everyone loves this movie, but I hate it” and others declaring that “everyone is criticizing this movie, but they’re wrong” — viewpoints that only grew more heated and high-stakes as they dived into the film’s racial politics.You didn’t even need to be a pop-culture figure to get chewed up by these wild swerves of prevailing opinion. For reasons that remain hard to discern, a sweater-wearing man named Ken Bone became an internet hero after asking a question during a 2016 presidential debate — but after hearing of his past Reddit posts about pornography and the “justified” shooting of Trayvon Martin, millions of people turned instantly from applauding this total stranger to mocking and denouncing him. In an age of hyperpublic living, every person, company and brand is one tripwire away from a precipitous fall and a furious backlash.No matter how familiar the internet becomes with how all this works, even seemingly manageable events will send the usual cycles repeating, each more exaggerated than the last. It’s predictable that, after the death of a political figure, solemn eulogies will give way to vigorous criticism, which will in turn occasion righteous defenses. But you still might not have guessed that, within 36 hours after the death of Barbara Bush, the Women’s March would be facing backlash for having tweeted “Rest in peace and power,” and a college professor would be facing nationwide calls for her firing over tweets that called Bush racist and expressed pleasure in her death — each impulse, it seems, working hard to counter the prevalence of the other.At the root of this analysis, of course, is the assumption that liberalism has been on a steady, triumphant march — that a progressive ascendance sparks a conservative reaction. (“It cannot be stressed too strongly,” Lipset wrote, that backlash politics were “a consequence of the fact that the United States is becoming more liberal.”) But in 2016, it was the avatar of white conservative resentment who was elected president — a result the CNN commentator Van Jones described, on election night, as a “whitelash.” And in the aftermath of this stark shift in government, it’s clearly difficult for Americans to reach even a vague consensus on which ideological impulses are dominant and which are lashing out in response. Many conservatives appear to have scarcely registered their political victories, preferring instead to complain of a sinister “deep state” beyond executive control and resume their retaliatory campaigns against Hillary Clinton. At the same time, the backlash strategy has been handed off like a baton, cropping up with greater frequency in descriptions of liberals energized by their opposition to Trump.Cameron Tung is a freelance journalist from New York. This is his first article for the magazine.See More »Go to Home Page »