AdvertisementSenator Richard Durbin could scarcely contain himself as he placed his trap for Mark Zuckerberg. “Would you be comfortable,” the senator asked the Facebook chief executive, peering over his glasses with campy solemnity, “sharing with us the name of the hotel you stayed in last night?”Laughter rippled through the gallery. The senator pressed what he may have taken to be his advantage: Might Zuckerberg, he continued, share the names of people with whom he’d recently messaged? But Zuckerberg wasn’t bothered to admit that there were things he would rather not divulge for unlimited American consumption. “I think that may be what this is all about,” Durbin replied, in a triumphal tone. “Your right to privacy. The limits of your right to privacy. And how much you give away in modern America in the name of, quote, connecting people around the world.”AdvertisementWhat Durbin discovered is that Zuckerberg was delighted to argue on that terrain. Facebook has no trouble endorsing an argument for privacy in the terms of revelation — the revelation of location information that might be seen by a knife-wielding antagonist, at an extreme, or simply the drunken photos that might be seen by your boss. Our company, he said countless times over the course of his own interrogation, has menus upon menus of options to restrict the information other people might see and has limited third-party access since 2015. Besides, most users believe that they know what they are and aren’t broadcasting: If despised billionaires don’t post their hotel information, they won’t be killed, and if everybody else doesn’t post drunken photos, they won’t lose their jobs. All of this creates the impression that the adverse consequences of Facebook usage are only matters of disclosure, and that any breaches over the past few years are probably the user’s own fault.AdvertisementSolove proposed we relinquish our “1984” fixation and find metaphorical support in Franz Kafka’s “The Trial”: “a more thoughtless process of bureaucratic indifference, arbitrary errors and dehumanization, a world where people feel powerless and vulnerable, without any meaningful form of participation in the collection and use of their information.” In part this is about the difference between state and corporate power, but it’s also about effects subtler and further-reaching than the simple surveillance of what we mutter in bed.We ought to worry, on his view, much less about the Thought Police and much more about how our informational profiles harden into the invisible architecture of our everyday lives. It’s not that we might be observed or killed in our sleep, but rather that the availability of loans or jobs or romantic partners or upscale hotel rooms are already being silently and automatically withdrawn from “people like us” — people with our politics, people of our skin color, people with certain friends or predispositions, people without the wealth and power of Mark Zuckerberg. Or, in the case of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, it’s that our political affiliations are being arranged on the basis of our greatest vulnerabilities. Zuckerberg is more than happy to grant Durbin a victory that leaves all of this potential intact.There are a variety of possible policy implications — beginning with the idea that a one-size-fits-all legal-consent model, where clicking “I agree” signs all your data away, should be regarded as nonsense. But the idea of contextual integrity is most immediately useful as a diagnostic aid in the absence of dead bodies, a way to render precise our otherwise vague sense of agitation. It does a lot, for example, to explain exactly what’s so unsettling about the Cambridge Analytica issue, and why the congressional hearings were so unsatisfying. Many of the questions from our elected officials seemed to turn on the epiphany that what seemed like a service to connect friends was actually a service to sell ads, but most Facebook users are neither that stupid nor that naïve; everybody knows at this point that if you’re not paying for something, you’re the product being sold. Yes, that omnipresent shoe ad might be creepy, but as autonomous subjects we feel more than capable of simply not buying the shoes. Our decision to purchase one shoe over another doesn’t seem to have broad social consequences.See More »Go to Home Page »