AdvertisementSupported byFrom the outset, Gary D. Cohn was an unconventional choice to be President Trump’s top economic adviser.A former Goldman Sachs president and proponent of free trade, Mr. Cohn had a pedigree and economic views that clashed with Mr. Trump’s populist rhetoric and protectionist policies. His methodical approach also contrasted with the president’s freewheeling style.Now, those business leaders are lamenting the loss of one of their own from what is among the country’s most important economic positions.“Gary brought a strong growth orientation for the economy and a very balanced perspective, particularly on critical topics like trade,” said Rich Lesser, chief executive of the Boston Consulting Group, who served on one of Mr. Trump’s business advisory panels last year and attended policy meetings with Mr. Cohn. “He’ll be missed.”Mr. Cohn was instrumental in putting together the sweeping tax law that was enacted last year, legislation that delivered a windfall to corporations and was the main policy achievement of Mr. Trump’s first year in office.He is leaving the White House just as the president is proposing to impose stiff tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, which Mr. Cohn and many of his business allies strongly oppose.“It’s a pity we’re losing Gary this moment,” said Andrew Liveris, the executive chairman of DowDuPont who was also on a White House advisory panel. “His would have been a critical voice on this issue.”Markets have been sensitive to Mr. Cohn’s White House arc. In August, amid rumors that he might resign in the wake of Mr. Trump’s equivocal response to white nationalist violence in Charlottesville, Va., stock prices fell before an administration spokesman said that Mr. Cohn planned to stay.On Tuesday, news of his resignation helped send stock futures down. In early trading on Wednesday, the Standard & Poor’s 500 index slid about 0.5 percent.Given his background, he was regarded as the voice of Wall Street in the administration, a mantle that invited admiration and antipathy.“He is a globalist and he understands economics and trade,” said Bill George, a Goldman board member. “I think he was very stabilizing influence within the Trump administration.”Kathryn Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, a business group, said that she viewed Mr. Cohn as a “real resource” in Washington.“He was somebody that the New York business community and financial industry in particular relied on as someone in the White House who understood business and the financial industry and would push for doing what was right, not what was politically correct,” she said.On Tuesday evening, Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman’s chief executive, praised Mr. Cohn in a message on Twitter, writing, “Gary Cohn deserves credit for serving his country in a first class way.”Mr. Cohn’s critics said that the timing of his departure made it appear as though he considered the tariff proposals unacceptable, even as he stood by the president after the Charlottesville episode.“Every White House staffer has their breaking point,” said Ron Klain, a chief of staff to Vice Presidents Joe Biden and Al Gore. “If his breaking point was aluminum tariffs, and not the president’s remarks after Charlottesville, he had the wrong breaking point.”Mr. George, the Goldman Sachs director, said he did not think Mr. Cohn had to answer for all of the president’s remarks.“I don’t think he’s tainted at all,” Mr. George said. “He’ll probably take a few months to relax and reflect, and I expect he’ll come back to New York and do something significant in the financial world.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS