AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinGood Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Is Comcast going to play spoiler?• Why bitcoin tumbled from its highs at the end of last year.• Apple is just $80 billion shy of $1 trillion.• Elliott Management offers to buy Athenahealth.• Catch up on the highlights from Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting.According to Reuters, Comcast is holding discussions with investment banks about financing an all-cash deal, but the cable giant is waiting on a judge to rule next month on the Department of Justice’s suit to block AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner before submitting an offer, Reuters reported.AdvertisementContextAdvertisementSince then, Comcast has moved to complicate Fox’s plan to sell the bulk of its businesses to Disney.On Dec. 17, 2017, the price of bitcoin hit a high of $19,511. That capped a remarkable 10-month run for the cryptocurrency, which traded below $1,150 on Feb. 22, 2017.Since mid-December, the price of bitcoin has retreated. It bottomed out below $6,000 in early February and is currently down more 50 percent from its high.The researchers write:“The advent of blockchain introduced a new financial instrument, bitcoin, which optimistic investors bid up, until the launch of bitcoin futures allowed pessimists to enter the market, which contributed to the reversal of the bitcoin price dynamics.”“This one-sided speculative demand came to an end when the futures for bitcoin started trading on the CME on December 17. Although the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) had opened a futures market a week earlier on December 10, trading was thin until the CME joined the market. Indeed, the average daily trading volume the month after the CME issued futures was approximately six times larger than when only the CBOE offered these derivatives.”Shares of Apple have risen nearly 16 percent, including a 1.9 percent gain on Monday, the past six sessions. That rally has pushed the iPhone maker’s market value back above $900 billion and just $80 billion shy of $1 trillion.AdvertisementApple’s shares had stumbled late last month as investors grew increasingly concerned that sales of iPhone’s would disappoint. But revenue from the iPhone proved stronger than feared, and the company announced a $100 billion buyback plan.Elliott Management offered on Monday to buy Athenahealth for $160 a share, or $6.5 billion.The offer was made in a letter Elliott sent to the board of the health care software company. The activist hedge fund led by Paul Singer also said it may be “able to substantially improve the proposed price with additional, private diligence.”In Monday’s letter, Elliott said: “Athenahealth’s potential will never be realized without the kind of operational change that the company seems unable to deliver.”“Unfortunately, we are faced now with the stark reality that Athenahealth as a public-company investment, despite all of its promise, has not worked for many years, is not working today and will not work in the future. Given Athenahealth’s potential, this reality is deeply frustrating, but the fact remains that Athenahealth as a public company has not made the changes necessary to enable it to grow as it should and to create the kind of value its shareholders deserve.”Elliott said it approached Athenahealth about the company going private in November.AdvertisementCitigroup has a market value of $175 billion, so ValueAct owns about 0.7 percent of Citigroup.“The letter doesn’t call for any significant strategic changes, though it does suggest the bank could increase its plan to return cash to shareholders to about $50 billion from $40 billion,” The WSJ reports, citing ValueAct’s letter to its investors.Saturday was the day for the “Woodstock of capitalism” — Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting, and a celebration of Warren Buffett — and Andrew joined shareholders, analysts and other journalists seeking to ask the Oracle of Omaha about virtually anything.Andrew has more from the meeting: Shareholders applauded a question — which they rarely do — that was critical of Berkshire’s ownership of Wells Fargo. And Mr. Buffett’s response to a gun question and a critique of Elon Musk caused lots of chatter.• Mr. Buffett is sticking with Wells Fargo despite its current troubles, and said that its current C.E.O., Tim Sloan, “is correcting mistakes made by other people.”• He loves Apple — but wants the company, of which Berkshire owns about 5 percent, to keep buying back shares. He had less-kind words for cryptocurrencies, which he said will “come to bad endings.”• He defended business with the gun industry, reiterating, “I do not believe on imposing my political opinions on the activities of our businesses.”Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The alliance underlines Nestle’s efforts to capture more upscale java drinkers in the U.S., where the maker of Nespresso and Nescafe has been outpaced by JAB Holding. The investment company of Europe’s billionaire Reimann family has spent more than $30 billion building a coffee empire by acquiring assets such as Keurig Green Mountain and Peet’s.AdvertisementThen there was this, from the NYT:In 2016, Mr. Cohen went so far as to dabble in financial engineering. He spoke to investors about pooling distressed loans that financed taxi medallion purchases, repackaging them and selling them to investors, according to a person with direct knowledge of the discussions. He also explored buying up such loans at a bargain price in anticipation that their value would recover, the person said. The outcome of those discussions was not clear.AdvertisementAleksandr Kogan wasn’t the only academic to harvest data from Facebook users: Researchers have collected information from the site for more than a decade. But the proliferation of these data sets has made it easier to identify some of the millions of individuals whose information was collected.AdvertisementOne 2015 paper published in the journal Science looked at credit card spending data and found that data scientists could pinpoint 90 percent of the shoppers by name with just four random pieces of information from sites like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.AdvertisementGo to Home Page »