A proud father. A brilliant friend. Lucky in love. Inherited wealth. And an opioid addict, dead at 54.Supported byAnd, last weekend, Mr. Mellon traveled by private plane to Cancun, Mexico. He was going to get a “touch-up treatment” at a rehab facility he had visited earlier this year, said Mr. Mellon’s stepfather, J. Reeve Bright — and had been sober for about 70 days.He never made it there.Earlier in the week, Mr. Mellon visited with his parents in Delray Beach, Fla., where he was raised. “We had dinner with him on Saturday night, a joyful dinner and a very memorable dinner, more than we realized at the time,” Mr. Bright said. “He hugged and kissed his mother and he hugged and kissed me. He said, ‘I love you, Dad,’ and I said that I loved him. And 48 hours later he was dead.”Mr. Mellon was a member of one of the country’s oldest banking families: the great-great-great grandson of Judge Thomas Mellon, the Mellon Bank patriarch. Matthew Mellon’s father, Karl N. Mellon, died in 1983 at the age of 45, by suicide. Mr. Mellon, who had dyslexia, attended Phelps, a boarding school outside of Philadelphia. He was raised by his mother, Anne, and Mr. Bright; they married in 1975. Mr. Mellon received a bachelor’s degree from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in 1989. Mr. Mellon remained close to both his former wives. “His ex-wives are possibly even more devastated than his mother and I are,” Mr. Bright said. “We were laughing as we were looking at pictures earlier. There was a picture of Matthew standing between Tamara and Nicole and all of them are smiling. I don’t know how he did it!” Toward the end of his marriage to Ms. Hanley, he expanded his professional interests to bitcoin, the cryptocurrency. In 2014, Mr. Marshack and Mr. Mellon formed their own company, MellonDrexel, that allowed them to consult companies in the nascent cryptocurrency sector. Mr. Mellon was particularly taken with one of those companies, Ripple, for which he became a global ambassador, using his connections to market the company to banks and to his rich or famous friends. He took much of his compensation in its currency, called XRP.Throughout his adult life, Mr. Mellon wrestled with drug addiction and was in and out of rehab. “Matthew has struggled,” his stepfather said, speaking of his son in the present tense. “There is no question that he has struggled. He has gone through some difficult things in his life. But he pushed and pushed and pushed himself.”Friends described Mr. Mellon as an avid experimenter who wanted to be an early adopter of the new next thing — a good coffee, a good movie or a new apartment. That excitement, they said, may have lent itself to his addiction. He sought treatment at Clear Sky earlier this year.On April 8, a week before he died, a photo was posted to what appeared to be one of Mr. Mellon’s Instagram accounts. In it, he is smiling — and, according to the caption, sober.A week later, he was on a plane headed back to Clear Sky. But upon landing in Mexico, he checked into a hotel rather than going directly to the rehab.His stepfather cried as he discussed the man he and Mr. Mellon’s mother had raised. “When we found out he died, we sat down and we said to each other, ‘We know he is in heaven and now all of his struggles are behind him,’” he said. “He was a kind, caring, generous person. We firmly believe he is now in Heaven.” AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS