Instead of perfectly polishing their feeds, photographers and brands are now showing what women, in particular, actually look like.The internet was born in text. Now, video and audio are ascendant, writing is being left behind, and everything will be different.I’ll make this short: The thing you’re doing now, reading prose on a screen, is going out of fashion.We’re taking stock of the internet right now, with writers who cover the digital world cataloging some of the most consequential currents shaping it. If you probe those currents and look ahead to the coming year online, one truth becomes clear. The defining narrative of our online moment concerns the decline of text, and the exploding reach and power of audio and video.The distance between the White House and subcultures like 4Chan have closed. Now simple, guttural digital messages, often with multimedia, are big in politics.Political memes have gone mainstream as the distance between the White House and subcultures like 4Chan has closed.President Trump has frequently retweeted his fans’ meme work, #MeToo jumped from social media to every workplace, and political campaigns started to invest in the form more seriously. The political meme — text over an image, sometimes short videos or digital clip art meant to spread and be imitated — is often a guttural, simple message couched in humor, like the doctored video from September of Hillary Clinton being hit with his golf ball.There are now more ways to tell if your tweet was bad. That’s because of the ratio.It’s easy to tell when you’ve nailed a good tweet — just watch the likes and retweets pile up as the post goes viral.Now there are also more ways to tell if a tweet was bad. That’s because a new barometer for Twitter blahness has taken hold: the ratio.It’s harder to ignore harassment, or retaliate against accusers, when reports are bolstered by the stories of many others and the public is watching.Susan Fowler had tried going to human resources. She had tried going to her managers. She had tried transferring departments. But nothing changed. The sexual and sexist comments she received as an engineer at Uber kept coming.The pioneers of social media have begun grumbling that their technology might be irresistible. But they have few ideas about how to tame the beast they built.Your phone buzzes. A message, an Instagram post, a tweet — some bit of digital effluvia has come in, and it’s right there, promising a brief but necessary hit of connection. All you have to do is look.But, just as an experiment, how long can you resist looking? A minute? Two? If you make it that long, how do you start to feel? Can you concentrate? Does your mind wander at what you’re missing? And if you give in — as you surely will, as you probably do many times a day — how do you feel about yourself?Major companies have been forced to rethink how they advertise online after coming under fire when their digital ads appeared next to racist or fake-news content.For advertisers, one of the internet’s great promises has been the ability to automatically target people based on their interests and demographics, with little regard to the websites they are visiting.But these days, major brands have been forced to rethink how they advertise online. Companies from Kellogg to AT&T have come under fire for inadvertently funding bigotry, hate speech and misinformation, often because they were using automated ad technology to reach groups of people across a vast number of sites and videos.Advertisement