AdvertisementSupported byNext week he will begin his second career, in something rather familiar — talking about sports, once again for WFAN, the same station he left to much fanfare four months ago, after he had taken a 19-month-long retirement tour.But unlike other big-name sports comebacks — like Michael Jordan’s 1995 return to the court after a brief hiatus to play baseball, Brett Favre’s return to the gridiron after a fleeting summer “retirement” in 2008, or the reinstatement of Mr. Met, the baseball-headed mascot of the New York Mets, in 1994 — news of Mr. Francesa’s return has been met with more jeers than cheers.This is just my humble opinion, but, if you ask me the worst part of Mike Francesa coming back is Mike Francesa coming back. Don’t @ me.“It just looks pathetic,” Boomer Esiason, WFAN’s morning sports host, said Wednesday on the show he shares with Gregg Giannotti. Though news reports have said Mr. Francesa is poised to return as soon as next week, WFAN would not comment on when he might make his debut, again.Mr. Esiason and others said they feared his return will substantially diminish the roles of the trio hired to replace him: Maggie Gray, Bart Scott and Chris Carlin, co-hosts of the show “The Afternoon Drive.”“Radio can be a real sewer pit, and there’s a lot of back-stabbing and knife-throwing and all that other stuff that goes on,” Mr. Esiason added. “We try to stay above all that stuff, but unfortunately you can’t, and three people basically have gotten screwed.”The decision to bring back Mr. Francesa, known for his ability to fill five hours of airtime with endless sports rants, about everything from horse racing to free throws, and his sometimes caustic exchanges with scores of daily callers, comes after slumping listener numbers from his replacements.News of Mr. Francesa’s return induced a schism at the station, with those in the new hosts’ corner, like Esiason and Mr. Giannotti, complaining that the new hires would be marginalized, and their show given short shrift and a smaller time slot with Mr. Francesa added back to the lineup. In a statement, WFAN said that no decisions have been made regarding time slots or programming, and that negotiations with Mr. Francesa are still in process.“Every day they walk in here they’re going to feel like, ‘Wow, everybody looks at us like a failure,’ and that’s just the perception of what it’s going to be, and that’s not fair,” Mr. Giannotti said during Wednesday’s broadcast. And at one point in the show, he fretted for his own future. “Next thing you know I’ll be doing 4 a.m. to 6 a.m.,” he said.In its statement, the station acknowledged that it was in discussions with Mr. Francesa about his return, adding, “We also confirm that we are very proud of our current lineup at WFAN and that any potential future engagement with Mike will not result in any talent departures.”Mr. Francesa did not respond to messages left at his home phone requesting comment. Mike Levine, an agent with Creative Artists Agency, which is representing Mr. Francesa, declined to comment.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS