AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionDid you fill out a bracket for the N.C.A.A. Division I men’s basketball tournament this year? Do you ever bet on other sports events?The United States Supreme Court, in a case to be decided in the next few months, is expected to rule in favor of the State of New Jersey and overturn a ban on non-internet sports betting in all but four states (Delaware, Montana, Nevada and Oregon). According to a recent report from Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, at least 18 state legislatures are preparing bills to legalize and regulate sports gambling.That none of these developments has rallied much outcry or opposition reflects both an evolution and devolution of attitudes toward the subject.In 1992, a federal law banned sports betting in most of the country. A Gallup/CNN/USA Today poll showed that a majority of Americans disapproved of legalization. This reflected long-held concerns, not only in regard to the activity itself but also to the dangers it posed to the integrity of our games. High-profile gambling scandals — ranging from the 1919 Black Sox fixing of the World Series to revelations that the baseball legend Pete Rose bet on games in which he participated — confirmed for many people that sports and betting were not a good match.By 2014, however, polls began to show that a majority of Americans had begun to rethink their skepticism. What changed in the intervening years? A lot, including the introduction of the internet — which for a period made online gambling (especially poker) easily accessible without bringing down the Republic.Some credit must also go to Super Bowl Squares sheets and March Madness pools, the gateway drugs of serious sports gambling (with dealers across the country).— Do you think the ban on sports betting should be overturned? Why or why not?— Do you agree with Mr. Belsky that Super Bowl Squares sheets and March Madness pools are “the gateway drugs of serious sports gambling”?— What do you think may be gained—or lost—if sports betting is made legal?— What do you hope will happen when the Supreme Court hears the case? Why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS