AdvertisementSupported byFirst WordsWhen a 35-year-old named Sam Hinkie became president and general manager of the Philadelphia 76ers in 2013, the team was a middling N.B.A. franchise whose city, like most cities, felt it had won fewer titles than it deserved. One route to actually winning those titles seemed clear: N.B.A. championships are won by teams with a superstar, and preferably two or three. The most efficient way to secure such superstars is through the annual draft. And the draft’s rules give an advantage to the teams with the worst records. As Hinkie took the reins, fans quickly concluded that he was preparing to attempt a novel strategy: The Sixers would tank, deliberately fielding poor teams whose bottom-of-the-league finishes would net them high draft picks. This would take a while to bring positive results, but Hinkie implored fans to ignore the team’s losses and look at the big picture. “We talk a lot about process,” he said, “not outcome.”Sports are defined by clear rules, predictable mechanics and unambiguous results; you really can devise a workable system around them. The same goes for a game like blackjack, in which your chances are consistent, the dealer’s behavior is printed right on the table and everyone agrees on what makes a good outcome. The odds may be against you — casinos are, after all, a business — but there really is an objectively correct way to play many hands. Even when you lose, the process remains sound.Real life is not at all like blackjack, and yet the same faith in process crops up in even the messiest realms. Late last year, a White House spokesman dismissed fears over Robert Mueller’s investigation by suggesting that the administration should be as sanguine as one of its lawyers: “Take a deep breath, follow Ty Cobb’s lead, trust the process.” Anthony Scaramucci, during his abbreviated reign as White House communications director, argued for a health care system that would “trust the process of the free market, like in telecom, like in airlines” — those industries of notoriously satisfied consumers. Two years ago, a New Yorker article mentioned one person who adopted a “trust the process” mantra while taking an improv class; he left his career in venture capital and got into a Buddhist podcast.Process can be soothing. We defer to it, almost out of habit, as if it is a machine that will resolve all conflicts, so long as we can resist meddling with its workings. But what if those workings, and the conflicts behind them, are precisely what we should be meddling with and arguing over?Among the United States’ most cherished processes is the one enshrined in the Fifth Amendment, and later the Fourteenth: No person shall be “deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law.” The set of rights we’ve come to think of as due process is process at its best, offering a whole litany of protections designed to minimize wrongful convictions: presumption of innocence, the right to an attorney, the requirement that guilt be proved to an exceptionally high standard. Our generous conception of due process is a source of national pride — so much so that we sometimes come to expect it in every area of life.For the past several months, this has been the question raised as men are accused of sexual misbehavior or misconduct. What kind of “process” might the accused be owed before suffering any consequences — especially if those consequences are as informal as having people generally despise you or demand your resignation from a high-profile job? This is an open and debatable question, and there are people in a position to propose concrete answers to it. And yet we’ve often seen them call for “process” as a way to avoid taking any clear position. When a White House adviser, Rob Porter, resigned amid reports of domestic abuse, President Trump tweeted: “Is there no such thing any longer as Due Process?” But he was not, to all appearances, suggesting that Porter be tried in a court of law — and if Porter deserved some formal hearing before departing his job, surely it was the Trump administration itself that would have to provide it.Late last November, as pressure built on Representative John Conyers to resign over accusations of sexual harassment, the House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, appeared on “Meet the Press” and maintained that “we are strengthened by due process.” When asked how she might use her own powers to address the situation — she could, for instance, have suspended him from his ranking position on the House Judiciary Committee — she declined to give an answer.Invoking process lets us delegate our own judgments to some ostensibly neutral mechanism, a system that will formally decide things that might be difficult for us to decide ourselves. But it can also absolve us of the responsibility to engage with the questions around us; it can offer us cover for taking the positions we wanted to all along. Columbia University, for instance, has declined to negotiate with a union formed by its graduate students, even after that union was approved by the National Labor Relations Board and voted on by the students themselves — a stance that will push the matter into further litigation. “We have declined to bargain,” the university’s provost said in January, “until the legal process has been allowed to run its course.” This is one kind of language “process” can speak. “Sorry,” it seems to say. “Our hands are tied. We’re forced to let this play out, in precisely the way we already preferred.”But process is not a magical ritual — it is designed to accomplish something specific, and if it fails, it can be redesigned. Of the 17 constitutional amendments ratified since the Bill of Rights, 10 have changed the rules of voting and representation. And after Humphrey was defeated by Richard Nixon, the Democrats found themselves revisiting their primary system; a commission led by Donald Fraser and George McGovern, a peacenik senator from South Dakota, proposed changes to the primaries that would transfer power from party bosses to the rank and file. Three presidential elections later, after the candidates this new system encouraged (including McGovern) failed to thrive, Democrats changed the rules again, swinging authority back to party loyalists with the creation of “superdelegates.”In 2016, those superdelegates came to seem, to supporters of an insurgent Bernie Sanders, like an emblem of the party establishment’s preference for the presumptive nominee, Hillary Clinton. At the party convention, the Democratic National Committee created another commission to examine voting processes. It issued its recommendations late in 2017, including measures like drastically reducing the number of superdelegates and opening caucuses to absentee participation.Many in the party have joined in support of these changes. No less than Tim Kaine — Clinton’s handpicked running mate — tweeted early this month: “We Democrats need to do away with superdelegates once and for all. They are given undue influence and make the presidential nominating process less democratic.” But even explaining those recommendations might require, for some audiences, the gauzy reassurance that the status quo won’t be upset too much. One commission member, Jan Bauer, told The Des Moines Register that Iowa, her home state, need not fear huge alterations to its famously first-in-the-nation caucuses: “I’m not sure we’re really talking,” she said, “about changing the process.”Marc Tracy is a college-sports reporter for The Times. A blog he edited at Tablet Magazine won a National Magazine Award in 2011. This is his first article for the magazine.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS