AdvertisementSupported byThe ShortlistWhen will someone stick up for millennials? We have been sheltered by our parents, swindled by our universities, deadened by our therapists, and for all this our reward has been glib condescension from the boomer press. Rising to our defense is Harris (our peer, born 1988, as the book’s cover notes), a familiar provocateur from the internet’s left flank. Harris contends that America has stiffed our generation, filling childhoods with homework and extracurricular activities. All of this ostensibly served to prepare us for college and fruitful careers, when really all it resulted in was the “almost inevitable heartbreak” of falling short of our parents’ expectations and ours.Harris spins a recognizable story of a hostile job market characterized by declines in worker solidarity and wages. He uses the concept of human capital to analyze how much time millennials have invested in themselves by way of schoolwork. And for what? “Every authority from moms to presidents told millennials to accumulate as much human capital as we could, and we did, but the market hasn’t held up its end of the bargain.”He brings a fresh, contrarian eye to some of the usual data points. He sees in the Obama-era nationalization of student debt not an aid to youngsters but “a goofy scheme to stimulate consumer demand.” For rising tuition costs at America’s public universities, he blames greedy administrators rather than benighted state legislatures. He argues that millennials’ deserved loot has been hoarded by the ownership class and seniors, who have saved entitlement programs that serve them as steady government jobs disappear and the social safety net withers. He also broadens his survey to cover school discipline and YouTube stars. And he makes a surprising case that sexting isn’t as harmful as it’s cracked up to be.As generational advocates go, we could do worse than Harris. But he ends his book with a fatalism nearly as flippant as the generational critiques he loathes. Despite this moment of political fellowship among millennials, he writes off the possibility of meaningful change coming from government or social movements once we take over. I’m not optimistic myself, no, but what is our generation if not rich in skills we may yet put to good use?Eler, who is the visual arts critic for The Star Tribune in Minnesota and also a millennial, has published for years on the selfie and its implications for privacy, self-expression and sex. In the selfie she finds “an aspirational image” essential to “being seen by others online.” She sees the selfie as a lifeline to those who struggle to be represented in the media ecosystem; she mentions transpeople and agoraphobes. And not all selfie-takers, she proves, are as oblivious as imagined.Unfortunately, Eler’s book would have benefited from a more careful edit. Her discursive style is sometimes whimsical, but mostly distracting. She dwells on a topic having little to do with selfies and then glosses over complicated selfie-related stories. Fake news in the 2016 election gets at least seven pages; the macaque who took a selfie and then saw PETA sue for his copyright gets just two. She provides an extended discussion of blogs that post screenshots of bad Tinder conversations but glosses over the July 2016 Facebook Live stream by Diamond Reynolds after her husband, Philando Castile, was shot by the police. And while there are moments where her light touch suits the material well, a section on social-media surveillance at Standing Rock is hindered by her choice to discuss it through quoting a meeting she had over coffee with a protester.In spite of its flaws, though, Eler’s book alights on the source of the selfie’s power: It is the easiest way to assert one’s humanity in our hyper-networked world. Perhaps our much-fussed-over narcissism is not a flaw but a survival tactic.Her new “iGen” pities rather than disdains those born after 1995, arguing that smartphone addiction has saddled a new generation with profound psychological problems, including sleep deprivation, depression and unshakable senses of loneliness and fear. They drink less and have less sex; they socialize less without their parents present; they hardly read for pleasure or go to the mall; they eschew church and even spirituality; they kill themselves more (but others less); they wait longer to get drivers’ licenses and give birth. Twenge premises her conclusions on longitudinal studies of high schoolers and college students, which she supplements with first-person accounts from members of iGen. She concludes by offering this advice: “Do not sleep with it or give it nude pictures of yourself. It is not your lover. Do not continuously turn your attention to it when you are talking with someone in person. It is not your best friend.”Twenge is right to highlight smartphones’ contributions to our malaise. In one section she notes the feeling of rejection that arises from a text sent without an immediate response, and in another she notes that more screen time leads to less in-person socializing, which breeds loneliness.She could stand to incorporate some of Harris’s alarm about the economy. She duly recognizes income inequality as a prime source of iGen’s anxiety about its future. But while she discusses how smartphones do their harm, she has no such harsh words for the modern labor market. Instead she tells marketers how to exploit iGen’s diminished expectations, which struck me as tacky and not particularly useful, besides. The kids may spend too much time on their phones, but they know better than to trust brands.Jack Dickey, a 27-year-old millennial, is a staff writer for Sports Illustrated.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS