AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionWhat sports do you play? Are you happy with the amount of time you spend playing these sports? Why or why not?Who decides which sports you play, and how much time you devote to each?Few would dispute the value to children of participating in sports, organized or otherwise. Being physically active and engaged in friendly competition is widely acknowledged to be good for children’s physical, mental and social well-being. It can foster discipline, cooperation and camaraderie as well as a good time.When I was growing up in Brooklyn in the 1940s and ’50s, we were free to play games and sports that we chose or devised. We picked teams, made the rules and enforced them ourselves. No officials monitored our activities and no adults oversaw or commented on how well or poorly we played. Sure, there were occasional spats, but we learned how to resolve them on our own and get back to having fun.But the concept of free play has since yielded to adult-controlled games and hopes for glory among many of today’s parents. The way youth sports is promoted in many parts of the country these days can be anything but good for the children who engage in them, according to leading experts who described their findings at the annual meeting of the American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons in March.Today, adults are most often the organizers and enforcers of youth sports, and too often they get in the way of their children’s best interests, these experts say.As Dr. Charles A. Popkin, pediatric orthopedic surgeon at Columbia University Medical Center, said at the meeting, “Sadly, what parents want and what parents hope to gain from their children’s participation in youth sports is often at a significant extreme to what the kids actually want.”— Do you agree with the article that “healthy competition is becoming unhealthy” because students are specializing in one sport to the exclusion of other sports? Why or why not?— Have you or any of your friends been injured or experienced sports burnout? What happened, if so, and why?— In your opinion, how young is too young to begin specializing in a sport?— How much does adult pressure influence your sports participation, and why?— What are the benefits and the disadvantages, in your view, of parental involvement in youth sports for children?— If you could change anything about youth sports, what would it be and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS