AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBut while we have you, we want to mention something we’ve noticed.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted._________I grew up in a rural town where owning and shootings guns for recreational reasons is the norm for plenty of residents. I don’t think anybody here has been killed by one of the hundred guns in our community; regardless of how easy they are to obtain in my State. Honestly, I don’t think guns are the issue here, but mental health is. If you are mentally sick enough to want to go into a school and shoot children with their entire lives ahead of them, a gun law banning all AR-15s isn’t going to stop you. There are so many ways you can obtain one illegally or just find a replacement.Having a family and a community that has taught me respect for firearms has drilled into my brain the guns aren’t the cause for all these deaths, it’s the people behind those guns. If you had the choice, would you get rid of all terrorists in the world or just limit what they can do? I don’t know about you, but I would take the first choice. Plenty of legislation has been circling around the media lately, but not one seems to really tickle my fancy. The opinions of what we should do are so split between Congressmen and the people. For example, I read that idea about repealing the 2nd Amendment. I think that’s completely preposterous. On the other hand, I see that the 2nd Amendment is perfect and things should stay the way it is. Though I agree more with that second half, I think a minor tweak is in order. I am behind making it harder for monsters to get guns, but still possible for everyone else to.I would certainly agree with Robert Leonards assertions that a more efficient system of background checks than those currently in place would help to cut down on mass shootings, as well as that a ban on AR-15s and other similar rifles would never pass through Congress into law. I’m particularly interested in the gun debate because its results will heavily impact the way I will live the rest of my life. I definitely plan on purchasing at least an AR-15 and a 9mm handgun at some point in my life and am not fond of the idea of that right being taken away from me before I get the chance to buy my own guns. I think the government’s respect of our individual rights should be their top priority, but they should also do their best to protect the people without jeopardising out personal liberties. I think the government needs to strike a balance between the two sides that will appease, at least to some degree, both sides of the argument. I really do not think that introducing more guns into society will increase or decrease violence using firearms, I would have no problem with more people owning guns as a method of protection and recreation. I truly think that the only way to reduce the rate of murders using firearms would be a more effective background check and mental healthcare system would be a better alternative to much stricter gun control or even repealing the Second Amendment.I definitely believe stricter gun control is needed. To be honest, I want to call for strict ban on guns, but I know that is too ideal. The Second Amendment was written hundreds years ago, when our population was not significantly less than today and when the government was not well-organized like today. Thus, I cannot understand why unrestricted distribution of guns is necessary in the modern world. The Second Amendment says it is for the self-protection, but is it not clear that guns are more often used for crimes and violations? Also, why on earth is machine gun needed by a civilian?There was another shooting in California today, causing 3 injuries; this is only two months after the Stoneman Douglas High School Shooting. I still remember a parent of the victim of this school shooting crying out “how?” to President Trump. He questioned “how can nothing have changed after Columbine? after Sandy Hook?” Why have nothing changed until now that the high schoolers have to stand up to cry for “more gun control.”School cannot be a place where I have to carry a gun. Nor do I want to see my teachers carrying a gun “in case of emergency.” I want to remember high school as a somewhat stressful, yet welcoming, lively place with fun friends and kind teachers, not as a possible battlefield. Did we not all learned that “violence cannot solve violence” in kindergarten? Now, how can distributing more guns can solve gun deaths?; it will cause even more gun accidents and violences.The sentence-long second amendment is a relic from a time when the U.S.’s population was less than one percent of what it is today. Thusly, as opposed two hundred fifty years ago, defending ourselves against the government and forming a militia is completely out of the question. Whether you believe this is a good thing or not is largely irrelevant, as it’s our reality and it won’t change without aid from another country’s nuclear weapons. What we’re now left with is an antiquated rule that indirectly prioritizes the wants of child murdering psychopaths.While I understand the importance of the gun culture in rural America as mentioned by Robert Leonard in the fourth excerpt, there are sacrifices that need to be made for the safety of the citizens of our country, and if that means making it harder for people to obtain handguns and banning semi-automatic rifles outright, then they should be willing to make that exchange in the consideration of over 300 million people’s lives. Leonard stated, “...gun control has never stopped criminals from getting guns, and never will.” And though it’s true that any amount of gun control will never completely eliminate the possibility of illegal firearms coming into the possession of dangerous Americans, it doesn’t mean that we should capitulate to the terrorists by maintaining the facility of legally purchasing them.*Part 1*As a person raised in republican household with guns, I most definitely support the second amendment and the right to own guns. But as a centrist (person whose political beliefs are literally right down the middle) my beliefs towards gun reform would seem vastly liberal to some of the rural americans of Iowa that Mr. Leonard mentions. But enough about political labels, I’d rather discuss what needs to be done to protect our citizens from lunatics with guns.There should universal background checks for any purchase of any type of firearm. Along with this the minimum age for the purchase of any firearm, whether it be a handgun or any type of rifle. To go with these new changes, the waiting period before one may receive the firearm they purchased should be no less than one week. But this firearm should only be allowed to purchased after a universal background check and an extensive psychological evaluation. Furthermore, AR-15s and anything like an AR-15 should only be sold to a person if they have undergone the aforementioned checks and evaluations plus a significant amount of training and a final evaluation ending in a special license that must be renewed every year for continued legal use.*Part 2*So after all these changes are in place we should live in a safer and more controlled environment. I agree with the liberal leaning articles written by John Paul Stevens and Steve Israel, that more reform needs to come speedily and that with marches and midterm elections we can help get representatives that actually care about our safety. Furthermore I agree with Brad S. Karp and H. Christopher Boehning that the government should stop shielding gun producing companies and gun selling companies from wrong doing with the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. But ultimately I agree with the more republican belief that the shooter is more to blame than the gun they are wielding._________I personally think Hovnanian’s exhibit is a fantastic idea, however, I personally would not visit the exhibit. I feel like although the exhibit is nicely crafted, it suggests to people visiting that nature need not be explored, as it can be simulated by humanity at will. It’s immersive, sure, but I think that a similar feeling could be achieved just watching some nature walk videos on Youtube, or playing a videogame in a natural setting. I usually get my “nature fix” through a daily walk, from my highschool back to my house. I live in an area which contains a large diversity of plants from neighbor to neighbor, and it’s interesting to see all the biodiversity in one area. What I enjoy the most about nature, though, is the fact that it changes, often unpredictably. Sometimes an area might suddenly fill with beautiful violet flowers, or sometimes a bird might stop right in front of you to eat a worm. You never know what you might discover next. Simply observing these patterns has really allowed me to open my mind, they’ve given me countless ideas for designs when I create art. I think observing something so beautiful that we have no control over opens our minds to inspiration. That’s why I’d much rather the nature-deprived people of today go to a real park, than Hovnanian’s exhibit. Though I appreciate Hovnanian’s efforts in constructing such an exhibit, I believe that no amount of human effort put into creating simulations could match the eons of creation that nature took.Personally I have never been a nature girl. I like the outdoors when it comes to lounging around in the sun and spending my days at the beach, but hiking and camping has never been my thing. I would much rather enjoy a day in the sun hearing the waves crashing, then a night filled with hiking to a camp site and setting up a tent before dark not to mention those pesky mosquitoes. I’ve been camping several times with my family and it can be relaxing to unplug, but also stressful planning for meals and getting there with all the proper equipment. I think Ms. Hovnanian has a very good idea about creating an environment that can surround you with a relaxing atmosphere to unplug from your busy lives. I would definitely be willing to try her immersion room. I think this room would be good for people who would like to escape into a calm and tranquil atmosphere, but not deep into the woods. I would love to see the effects of how it made me feel and experiencing a different form of “nature”.I am constantly outside, but in a suburban environment that’s not always enough for your “nature fix.” Personally, camping and boating are the two things that truly satisfy my need to see nature. Every year me and my friends get out in the woods and pretty much rough it for a couple days. Bringing only small amounts of food, water, and clothing makes it a challenge to live and sleep comfortably. For me, life is all about escaping that comfort zone that so many of us live our entire lives in. Like Rachel says, I also think it is very healthy to “not do much of anything in nature.” Taking in all the scenery and enjoying the silence is a good way to relieve yourself of the stress and anxiety that comes with living in a city.Hovnanian suggests that nature can enhance our imaginations; I would add that the benefits of nature pervade our entire beings, heightening our emotional, spiritual, and even physical health. I get my nature fix by taking late night walks with my dog. Staring into a vast expanse of darkness scattered with a sea of luminous stars, I begin digging through all of the emotions, the delusions, the daily routines, the expectations, the distractions. Only then am I free to be firmly ground in reality. Anyone who knows me well knows that I would trade my phone for the NDD immersion room any day.Having the chance to view pictures of the “NDD Immersion Room” from a silly laptop was a magical experience itself. It all seems like an unreal experience, and I give credit to Rachel Lee Hovnanian: the inventor of this nature room. Being a Boy Scout, I can personally relate to this kind of magic nature has created. Whether it be camping on the beach, the woods or even in the mountains I often like to go on a walk - a walk without my phone. Without the worry of catching a call, beating my opponents in clash royale or looking up some overdramatic celebrity news, I can connect with the real world. A world much like the “NDD Immersion Room”, but actually real. A world where you can actually touch these huge trees and not just imagine their presence. A world where you can actually see a grasshopper eye to eye, not in a locked glass box. I love the idea of the nature room, I truly do, it’s just not enough nature for me. It’s a nature walk for me that connects me with nature, not being locked in a room surrounded by tree wallpaper and living life locked inside of a box.I spent my summers in my dirty converse shoes, among the trees, arms and legs (and sometimes hair) covered in tree sap. I built hammocks in my giant willow trees and read for hours as the (slightly structurally unsound) branches swayed with the breeze. When I was little the outdoors were a place of great imagination and exploration. The first time I climbed up this massive pine tree near my house, I gazed at the endless sky and I was filled with both contentment and wonder. Many summers my sister and I used to pretend we were warrior cats inspired by a book series she was reading at the time. We collected moss and dandelions to create little homes for ourselves outdoors and pretended to fight the villains of the novel. I now get my nature fix haphazardly and spontaneously. On the first really good day of spring, I’ll look out my window towards my swing set and find myself seconds later bounding towards it. Over spring break, I went with friends to the mountains to explore random trails and ended up climbing up the side of the mountain with them. Nature has always been an invitation to dream and to wonder. It has been the setting of my favorite memories, and been at the root of my own evolution. Although now I am older and have found less time spend outside, I still find myself stealing little moments where I can hide away in the glorious refuge of the outdoors._________Yes, I am included in the epidemic of vaping devices affecting teenagers today. Why? Ask our Gen X parents, who smoked cigarettes. Or our baby boomer grandparents, who smoked cigarettes as well. It seems that teenagers always gravitate towards trying new things that their peers are doing. Although I don’t own a vaping device myself, almost all of my friends do. If you walk into the girls bathroom at any given time you will see 5+ girls crowded in a stall, all vaping together. In the bathroom near the cafeteria, the handicapped stall is widely regarded as the “vaping stall.” Someone even wrote, “Vape gods only!” on the wall. The issue here is no teenager will regard it as an issue. Almost everyone I know vapes regularly, or has at least tried it. However, I only know a handful of people who have smoked cigarettes. Many kids don’t know the detrimental effects that vape devices have on your health, and frankly, many of them don’t care, because they think cigarettes are much worse. Though I applaud the efforts of Cape Elizabeth High School to help kids who are struggling with addiction, I honestly don’t think that will make a difference. If teens are already vaping, they aren’t going to stop. Instead, we should focus on teaching kids not to vape in the first place. There is such a stigma around cigarettes that many teens view it as “gross” or “trashy” if someone smokes them. There should be the same stigma around vaping so that kids won’t be tempted to try it in the first place.I do not vape but my school has a major problem with it. There are always several students that are skipping class and they are vaping. There has always been students smoking at the school but vaping is now doing it none stop. The schools consonsinquenes are not doing anything. Students will get caught and they will just take and gather in a different spot to continue to vape. The school has only suspended the students for a short period of time and they still just take and find another way to bring the vape right back in to the school. The schools need to make the punishment harsh by suspending the students they catch vaping, confiscate the vape, and make the students do something like community service or even clean the school just because they were vaping. Other students need to speak up if they see someone vaping and report it. The vapes are so popular because students think that by vaping it makes them cooler.Of course I knew about the health effects of vaping but that doesn’t stop us. I’m not surprised with anything in this article and I am sure that everyone at my school who vapes will say the same. So the question from all staff and parents is why do we do it? Well let’s be honest, every generation has their “drug” or addiction. Schools have tried to crack down on this problem but at the end of the day, there are so many people vaping that I believe that ending the vaping in schools is a lost cause. School if stressful and we practically drive ourselves crazy going through the same routine without anyway to escape from it. For many people vaping is their escape. You can practically get a three minute buzz from hitting a “flash drive” without your teacher catching you. I agree with Kate Zernike with the fact that we vape because students want to “rebel” or break loose but let’s accept the fact that vaping has is being used to cope with our strenuous school routine.Personally, I do not see the allure in vaping but see it as a serious health concern in schools and teens. I know people in my school that vape and see it as an uprising problem. I understand that students are stressed and see vaping as a safer option to smoking or drugs, but it is in a way more dangerous because of this. Kids think it’s safer so they are more inclined to do it and to do it frequently. Dr. Mark L. Rubinstein says that due to the lack of research, people can’t identify the risks like they can with smoking, which has had years of research, but the little research that has been done shows scary results. This causes people to falsely assume that it is safer just because there haven’t been extensive studies like cigarettes. It’s concerning that e-cigarette companies direct their sales toward the youth, knowing that they don’t know the side effects. There needs to be more regulation on what these companies can do so we can prevent youth addiction.I kind of laughed at this article. It’s interesting to see how adults perceive this issue and our reasoning. “It’s the one risky thing that you can do in your life — with little consequence, in their mind — to show that you’re a little bit of a rebel.” I can’t speak for everyone, but I can speak for my friends and I, who have our juul’s shoved up our sleeves and write on bathroom walls “vape gods only”, that we are completely aware and completely unconcerned with the consequences. We are not addicted however to the nicotine, we are addicted to any and everything that is a breath of fresh are, anything that makes us feel little less like clones to our school system. We roam the roads at 4 in the morning stealing traffic cones and 79 cent drink signs from gas stations all while sucking so hard on a mango pod that your whole body gets pins and needles from the nicotine. We get so bored in class we see how many hits it takes to not be able to walk straight. We do everything our parents told us not to because we might as well have raised ourselves. We do everything our teachers tell us not to because we could run our high school better than any of the oblivious adults that sit behind their desks. The more time I spend in a classroom listening to people being “profound” the more I want to go 80 out of the parking lot with my head out the sunroof screaming to let all the prisoners know that we escaped. Instead I breathe in mint vapor and doze off to the sound of my teachers voice.The smoke may disappear within seconds but the issue of vaping in schools is a constant struggle. At first it shocked me how many people at my high school vaped, but I quickly became desensitized to it. I began noticing people all around me vaping - the shocking part wasn’t that they were vaping, rather that they would do it right underneath the teacher’s nose. Take a quick glance to the back corner of the classroom and you will most likely find someone trying to stealthily vape while the teacher is preoccupied.Abolishing the issue of vaping by threatening to suspend or expel students may work in some cases because most students (first-timers) fear ruining their records. However, there is a population of students who have developed an addiction to vaping and punishments may result in students rebelling and vaping more. Administrators should seek to help students with addictions and teach them about the health consequences.Just like how the vice principal in the article hadn’t noticed the students at his school vaping until he was directly addressed with a student who admitted to it, there is no easy way to completely solve this issue but we have to be more aware of what is happening right under our noses.Before reading this article, I did not even know what vaping was. I do not feel that vaping is a problem at my school. I have never heard of a situation where a student at my school got suspended for this particular problem. May I also add that suspension is the worst resolution to the problem. The immense psychological issue that correlates to vaping is much too extraordinary to be resolved under suspension. I do, however, like the implementation of therapy as a solution to vaping in schools, it is much more effective than suspension. I also want to bring up the Idea of exposure to the education of these vaping sources as a solution. I believe that a potential cause of the growth of vapers is peer pressure and more specifically gearing to pressure to engage in an unknown substance. If I, for example, had to be given vaping product by peers, I would be ignorant to the potential dangers in the substances. My ignorance could have led to peer influence by which my peer could have presented the substance to me as something harmless and I may have indulged in the substance as a result of my ignorance. The message that I want to reflect is that teens need that kind of education before the problem get uncontrollable so that they don’t fall under their own ignorance.I know a fair number of people who vape, young and old. I have never been supportive of any ideas of smoking whether it is under the facade of a “more safe” technological device or not. I think that the variety in how much money people spend on cigarettes over E-cigarettes is not large, but I do know some people who vaping has helped reduce their smoking habits. Even with Ashley Gould, the chief administrative officer of Juul saying: “Our product is not only not for kids,” does not feel genuine. Gould may genuinely not want legal trouble, but creating a curriculum that includes mindfulness exercises is not enough to solve this issue.The accessibility of E-cigarettes and the easy ability to carry and hide from the size of Juuls, add nicotine into the mix and you got a problem o your hands. The problem is that E-cigarettes are much better at creating addicts than stopping them. Making E-cigarettes less accessible and spreading views that do not encourage E-cigarette use may help, but just as cigarettes are a cultural problem E-cigarettes will need to be resolved similarly._________I do think the ban on sports betting should be overturned. If people are willing to risk their money on sports betting than they should be perfectly free to do so. It is their own money that they are gambling so they should be allowed to use it on sports betting if they feel they can make even more money. However, I do feel like limits should be placed on how frequent one can make bets in a day. Furthermore, I don’t agree with Mr. Belsky’s quote that March Madness pools are the gateway drugs to serious sports gambling. Although some people who participate in bracket pools or Super Bowl betting may become more interested in the concept of sports betting, for the most part this does not lead to people become serious sports gamblers. People generally have the ability to draw a line between casual sports betting and serious sports betting to the point where they become addicted. If sports betting is made legal I think this could lead to more casual sports fans deciding to bet on their favorite sports teams more often. It could also give those who are not very interested in sports a rooting interest in certain games that they placed bets on. However, some people might turn to sports betting as a consistent source of income which is a negative effect of legalizing sports betting. While sports betting can yield you money, these are gambles that people are making based off events in the future making it difficult to rely on sports betting as consistent income.The act of betting on sports is not immoral in my opinion, although it can lead to other more serious issues, such as point shaving and game fixing. I do not agree with the 1992 federal law banning sports betting in most of the country, as I believe the individuals right to privately and honestly wager on something they love trumps the concern of illegal activity.The March Madness tournament games have been astounding this year, the underdogs giving a good fight for the win. Now if someone asked me about March Madness games any other year than 2018, I would know nothing about the results, statistics or even the game predictions. I just didn’t care enough about the game to make a bracket, and creating one this year reversed my opinion about basketball. With my bracket, I would tune into the games, talk about future predictions with my friends and research the statistics of every participating team. I became a basketball enthusiast in the matter of one tournament. Sports betting is exactly the kind of enjoyable situation I experienced, however there is actually money involved. Making a bracket and keeping up with it does not harm at all, however when money is thrown into the situation, that is when things get ugly. With sports betting comes addiction, and as the article states cheaters. Cheaters who will do anything to win their brackets and win that big money prize. If it was not for sports betting, sports could actually be enjoyed without the constant fear of losing money. Sports betting simply ruins basketball and any other sport it intoxicates.I believe that the ban on sports betting should be overturned. If people want to bet their money on sporting events, they should be free to do so. Although I do believe that there should be some restrictions; for example, one must be at least 18 years old in order to place a bet. I strongly disagree with Belsky’s claim that a March Madness Pool is a “gateway drug” into “more serious sports gambling.” Yes, the thrill of winning and seeing some of your picks go your way can be quite exciting, but it doesn’t inspire people to take part in actual gambling. Millions of Americans participate in March Madness pools, and the vast majority don’t end up as actual gamblers.If sports betting is made legal, then I think that the whole issue will become much less taboo. You may see more everyday people betting, and unfortunately in some cases, this may lead to the development of an addiction. While some people may be concerned about gamblers influencing the outcome of certain events, I feel that this is less likely since athletes are paid far better than they were in 1919, when the famous “Black Sox” scandal occurred. I hope that the Supreme Court overturns the ban, but states need to have addiction treatment resources in place. This is the main adverse effect of overturning the ban, but if states have the adequate resources to combat addiction, then the overturn of this ban could be quite positiveI am into college basketball myself, unfortunately I did not make a 2018 D1 bracket. I still am not fully aware of what the law of legalizing sports betting would entail, but I think I am leaning a little more towards the legalization of it. Although I would still consider myself 50/50. I do not agree with Mr.belsky that madness pools are “the gateway drugs of serious sports gambling”. Basketball is a part of our culture and is something a large amount of the population enjoys, regardless of who they are. If sports betting is made legal, I think it will give basketball a little bit of a boost when it comes to awareness. As I said, plenty of Americans are entertained by watching and participating in the sport themselves, but if this was legalized, awareness for the sport could be raised immensely. Sports are a part of our culture. I do think this is a case that the Supreme Court needs to handle because it is something that is a part of American tradition and has provided entertainment nationwide for decades.I am a believer that there is little harm in sports betting and that the Supreme Court decision should be overturned. Personally, I have made small bets on big games like the Super Bowl for as long as I can remember. Regulating it will allow for more money to be won, or lost. The only difference between sports betting and gambling of other kinds is that the game can be rigged. However, I find that that situation would be extremely unlikely due to the constant media involvement and if the regulations were effective. Sports betting takes place now even though it is illegal, it is just under the table. By making it legal the government would be able to take taxes out of the winnings and gain something from it.Super Bowl Squares and March Madness brackets are something that millions of people do, even when they know very little about the sport. I disagree with Mr. Belsky, I don’t think that betting during those national events is a “gateway drug”. Almost everybody that I know participates in at least one of the two events, and I don’t know anybody that bets on the average seasonal game. I think the term “gateway drug” is very extreme for such an event that brings pleasure and enjoyment to so many people. I would call them more of a bonding experience than anything. It becomes the go to conversation and can create friendships and friendly competition in schools and workplaces. I am a strong believer that the court case should be overturned and sports betting should be legalized.This year is the first year I started getting into sports betting. I joined a fantasy football league with my friends and won first place and got $100. I also entered a super bowl square sheet with my dad. I won $50 and my dad won $100. I also entered a march madness bracket and placed third in my bracket. I entered all of these for the excitement and also to have something cool to do with my friends. I think there is nothing wrong with sports betting as long as it is minimal and you don’t become addicted to it. If you blow $1,000 on sports betting then you might need a little help. The joy of competing with your friends is exciting. If you participate every year with your friends, I believe that is okay. I do believe sports betting should be legalized. There is nothing wrong with it, as long as it is not a huge amount of money._________Homework therapist. WOW! I would love something like that! But you know what? If I will rely on private tutor that will help me do my homework, and calm me down anytime I feel stressed, first of all my family will be a bankrupt (while this tutoring might not even help, like in the story with SAT mentioned in the article), and second of all this tutor will need to move to my house, because I will need to be next to him all the time.But what happens next? Next I will get really addicted to always being helped with my stress, I won’t be able to deal with it myself, and there will be stress in life. Although right now we all think this is the most stressful time in our lives that’s not true. Life will be tough, and if we don’t learn how to deal with it right now, it going to be a disaster.This is however, my own opinion, and a homework therapist is not going to help me. But the article gives a good example of how beneficial for some people this solution might be.Ms. Ansbro is one of many students who worked with Dr. Levy-Warren (a “homework therapist”) and gained a lot from her lessons. Without Dr. Levy, Mellora Ansbro probably would not have applied to graduate school and wouldn’t know what to do next.This shows how individual the problem is.While some students need to just power through it, some students need to listen to music and some students need a private tutor. But the “need” of tutor should be severe and you should have a good explanation of why you need it.You bet I need a homework therapist. Absolutely surprising but studies have actually shown that teenagers cannot survive off of zero to three hours of sleep a night. Crazy, right? When seven thirty to three thirty are devoted to sitting in desks and four thirty to seven thirty are devoted to physical activity and eight to to three am are devoted to homework, where is the time left to sleep? I signed up for my strenuous school schedule in hopes of receiving a scholarship for college because my family is not made of money. Unlike the people in the article receiving the “homework therapy” my parents cannot afford to send me to a private high school, let alone a private college.You would also think that if the students are so busy with so much homework, they wouldn’t have the time for hour-long sessions devoted to talking about their homework instead of actually doing it. Although I would love to learn how to manage my homework more properly, nothing can be more efficient than what I do now: plug and chug.So, maybe after all I won’t be needing that homework therapy: my session can be taken by a teacher who needs to learn the limits of teenagers as well as the already rigorous schedules thrown at them before hours of ultimately useless homework is thrown at them.I think that Jocelyn is totally right. My family isn’t made of money either and I have to take harder classes in order to hopefully get a scholarship. I think that teachers should be the ones taking these sessions as well. While I understand that honors and AP classes are supposed to be challenging, 3 hours of homework from just one class is absolutely ridiculous.I’ve always been skeptical of homework therapists, application counselors, and everything of the sort. However, this doubt comes from my own personality. I prefer to work alone no matter the task- school projects, essay writing, homework. It feels too chaotic to have someone else adding their own ideas and thought processes to something that’s already bothersome.But my view of school advisors changed when I started meeting with a college counselor once a month. Like any high school student, I am very anxious about college and doing just the right thing for applications. Nonetheless, this college counselor helped me sort out my current goals and how to achieve them. It took a load of stress off of me to know that someone accomplished in this field was guiding me through the process.Homework therapists can seem excessive, since the whole point of homework is for an individual to learn and display their own thoughts. But when you think about the new amounts of pressure students have from school as well as extracurriculars, these therapists can seem like a necessity. As the article states, tutoring is a 100 billion dollar industry, and homework therapists are just a new addition. From these facts it’s obvious that students do feel more comfortable with a pro in a specific subject or just have someone working with them. So even though I’m not completely sold on the idea of homework therapists, I can’t knock it till I’ve tried it.Everyday, I dread going to school because of the homework, projects, and tests they assign. It causes me to stay up late every night and stresses me out to the point that I have mental breakdowns. I don’t really have a way to deal with the stress. I usually just power through it, put on some music, and sometimes I just have to stop working on my assignments and go to bed. It works for me, but I still get stressed very easily.A homework therapist is not necessary. The parents in New York paying $200 to $600 just to have someone nudge their kids to finish an assignment is ludicrous. As the article mentions, the therapists also help with SAT prep and subject tutoring, but I think it’s ridiculous that parents pay so much money for something their kids can go to their teacher and ask for help with. My brother got a tutor for SAT prep the second time he took it, but he ended up getting the same score so it was pretty pointless spending so much money on it when there are free websites that offer specialized practice tests with tips on taking the SAT.The article also mentions how some homework therapists will tell their teenagers to create Spotify playlists to express their mood or hand out scented putty to calm them down. This coddles these teenagers way too much. It’s important to be calm when in stressful situations, but we need to learn to deal with our own problems and not someone treating us like we’re five years old and handing us a ball of Play-Doh or a coloring book.There are so many times where I feel overwhelmed with homework or studying. Sometimes I have to do both for one class, not to mention the homework I have for my 3 other core classes and 2 academic electives. I manage my time pretty well but I still feel like it is impossible to get everything done. Especially towards the end of the year, around testing time. Reviewing, homework, new lessons, studying, tests, there’s so much going on and it’s very stressful. To help sometimes I ask my friends for help, if we can work on something together or if they can help me understand something better and complete it faster it helps a lot. For a lot of students grades are the cause of stress. We’re taught that if if you don’t do your homework then you don’t understand the lesson, you not only get a zero for homework but you,” also get one on the test, if you don’t pass the test then you won’t pass the EOC, if you don’t pass the EOC then you don’t pass the class, equaling a low GPA, which means you don’t get into college. At least, that’s what stresses me out.__________I would definitely, unofficially, characterize myself as a germaphobe. I hold doors open with my shoe, avoid touching handrails, and immediately wash my hands after coming home from any public place. However, I don’t always think about more “innocent” ways bacteria are spread, like through my phone. The article states that a cell phone contains 10 times more bacteria than the average toilet seat. Yikes. This definitely makes sense, though. Usually, a person has their phone 24/7, wherever they go, placing it on random surfaces, and then making contact with it. As for diseases in bath toys, we probably shouldn’t be using any bathroom object for more than a couple months- toys and razors alike. I have never used a loofah after reading a terrifying article about how quickly mold can grow in them.So unless we come up with a disease repelling rubber duck, we should probably put a time limit on the use of a particular squeaky bacteria breeding ground.I tend to worry about keeping germs off of myself. I have serious allergies and I usually get sick pretty easily, to limit my infections I try to stay clean frequently. But I stayed oblivious to the the sanitation of the objects around me. When I eat or use the bathroom, I make sure I wash my hands, but little consideration was made when I use my phone that has been with me and my adventures for the last 5-6 years. I can imagine that device is a planet of microorganisms suffering from overpopulation. No wonder my allergies are so bad, I just went from washing up a few minutes ago to cleaning my kitchen with a filthy cloth, to typing on a microbe infested keyboard while maintaining he habit of scratching my hair and face. It is obvious that just keeping myself sanitized isn’t enough. To stay healthy I should consider keeping the stuff I use and interact with in my house sanitized.Germs are literally everywhere. There’s no way to avoid them. So why are people so scared of them? I grew up not worrying that much about germs. Yes, I washed my hands before I ate and I never put my hands in my mouth. Okay, I swear I’m not disgusting, my mom just realized that, as kids, there was going to be no way we could avoid all the germs that we are susceptible to throughout the day and wasn’t a control freak about it. I mean, I wasn’t more sick than the average kid.According to the article, there were over 350 different species of germs found 14 dirty kitchen sponges. Even to someone who isn’t a germaphobe, that sounds gross. The sponges we use to clean our dishes that we eat off of are completely covered in germs. Worse than that, there is, on average 200 times more more fecal bacteria on a cutting board than a toilet seat. Now that’s disgusting!Although I grew up being less weary about germs than the average person, I still like to be healthy. After reading this article, I feel the need to wash my hands.What doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, and that about sums up my thoughts on germs. The thought of germs never passes my mind on a normal day, and in the rare occasion that it does I just imagine my immune system becoming stronger. My personal belief is that everyday germs can help strengthen my immune system. Why would I waste my time worrying about some microscopic germs when I could put that time into changing the world. Germs aren’t my enemies, their my friends.I think its a great thing that nowadays we are much more aware of the negative affects of germs on our body, knowing how to prevent germs and where to find them. That our innocent little rubber duckies as stated in the article have the capacity to make us sick for days, week even. Growing up my mom was very aware of germs, being diagnosed type 1 diabetic at a very young age made me prone to infections, so she was always on the lookout, clorox wipe in hand. On the other hand was my dad, who thought “Hey if God made dirt then dirt don’t hurt.” So as I got older I fell somewhere between the spectrum at a solid, “I know germs exist but I’ll pass on the rubber gloves, thanks” range. But knowing it can have a great impact on my health definitely keeps me alert, the flu to me is scarier than the boogie monster and the tickle monster combined.The thought of germs being basically everywhere has always lurked in the back of my mind, but I’ve never really had that universal fear of them in everyday life. I follow the average American when it comes to clearing germs such as washing my hands well, taking showers, using hand sanitizer, and other simple things. However, I don’t believe it needs to be taken too far. Reports showing hundreds or thousands of types of bacteria on daily, frequently used items, in my opinion are not truly helping anyone. Stated in the article, a microbiologist found that cellphones contain 10 times more bacteria than a toilet seat. Now, that definitely sounds intimidating, but how is it necessarily helping?. I mean, maybe people are more aware and use soap and hand sanitizer more often, but other people might genuinely become scared. It does seem like a scary thing, especially when there are so many people around us getting sick, but at the same time just because you have a phone doesn’t mean you are going to get sick, which is why I feel like some of these studies, though true, exaggerate the harm of germs and bacteria. I am all for keeping clean and staying away from germs, and I don’t think there is anything wrong with being a “germaphobe.” However, at the same time I wish not all would try to influence some people to a point where fear comes from daily items.__________Teachers build the foundations of our lives. Without them, life would just be blank. Today teachers are very underappreciated, they provide us with knowledge that will eventually help us build a life for ourselves, of course they deserve better pay.Most teachers that I have met are passionate about helping their students learn and grow throughout their time at school. Some teachers even go above and beyond to make sure that their students are receiving the best education that they can.My Latin teacher is making his own latin textbooks from scratch because he feels that the worn-down and heavily outdated textbooks that we have now, don’t provide us with enough information to fully understand and benefit from the course. He also spends most of his summer break planning for his classes for the following school year, instead of going to the beach and relaxing. One day during lunch, he even made my friends and I tea. He’s a teacher who cares, and he’s also a teacher who gets paid very poorly. Teachers like him deserve more, they deserve a higher pay.Public schools also deserve more money, as long as it goes to a good cause. I think that public schools should receive more funds that go to new textbooks, or more classrooms. Not to new gyms that don’t even fit the entire school. No school needs two gyms. I think that the funds need to be specifically aimed towards benefiting student’s education.I think teachers should be paid more. I think they should be paid more, because they do a lot for the kids and for their future. Teachers have an average pay of $55,000 a year, and that is too low for what they do. I think it should be raised to $62,000 a year, because they have to deal with annoying kids, overwhelming papers to grade, and give kids better paying jobs than what they have. In conclusion, i think they should be paid more, because they deserve it.In a world where our government spent twenty seven million dollars teaching Moroccans how to make pottery, five thousand dollars to produce a film about a pretty good fiddler, and sixty six thousand dollars to determine what bugs do near light-bulbs, I think it is terrible that we somehow can’t find the adequate funds to pay some of the hardest working and most important people to our future. I believe in small government, however I also believe in public education and I think that one of the most essential duties of government is to provide a good education system for their citizens, and that is simply not possible when teacher pay remains stagnant. The teachers walking out in Oklahoma and Kentucky are courageous and I applaud their efforts and wish them to the best of luck.Of course teachers should be paid more. Eventually, if their salary keeps decreasing, who’s going to even WANT to be a teacher, anymore? People will eventually start to quit and look for better jobs, and nobody will want to become a teacher. I believe that teachers should at LEAST make a more significant amount above standard minimum wage.As for public schooling - yes, I do believe that we need more funding. It’s depressing to come to school everyday, and see just how unfunded we are. My school has actually started limiting copies, so now, most of my work is online - rarely ever on paper. I’m also in the band program at my school, and our conversations often correlate back to how poorly funded we are. Lots of our instruments and sound systems need replacing, we’re in need of some new uniforms and repairs, and we also need props for our marching shows, and money to pay for expenses - but, that’s all a distant dream. The most we ever get is money for the buses, and maybe a new speaker, and a new flute.So, in short - yes. Teachers deserve a high raise in pay, and public schools need to be funded better.Teachers are the backbone of this country. Public education has taken so many young minds and turned them into amazing thinkers, just like the lady in the video said, “they need top dollar.” Right now, their funding is not cutting it. I firmly believe that educators in this country are criminally underpaid and under rewarded. These teachers are creating a newer generation of complex and understanding thinkers and we’ve decided to brutally underpay them for doing so. This problem NEEDS to be fixed. If we don’t value teachers for what they’re actually worth, there’s no hope for our future generations.The article mentions the need for political action in the upcoming election in November and I couldn’t agree more. The most effective route to take with this problem is strong political activism and change. Both voting for senators that will actually make a change and continuing to protest will greatly help their cause. It is also mentioned in the article that teachers in Oklahoma make $7,000 dollars less than the average teacher in America. This is just abysmal, teachers should be making the 20% extra that they are trying so hard to achieve. Our nation has to have a higher standard of pay. For years we have taken public educators for granted but that stops now.Teachers need better pay, and simply schools need more funding. I have known a few teachers that have moved out of state, because of how low the pay is, but the problem is there really is not anywhere that teachers are getting paid enough. It is interesting to me that these recent movement have gained so much strength with lawmakers and even their unions that are not taking action for rights. Although West Virginia is what got teachers thinking they can make change, it is the use and coordination of the internet, specifically Facebook, that has allowed these protests to be so effective.It also interests me how political it is becoming. Supporting learning is something that is universal, but not only are Republican states getting hard hit for their budget cuts, but Democrats are trying to capitalize on it. Just as teachers should try to be unbiased; lawmakers so invest in education. It still fills me with awe that something that so closely correlated with economic success, lack of crime, and health, things that would lead to less spending in other area of government.Imagine a scenario where we didn’t acclaim athletes for their countless trophies or models for their unrealistically proportioned bodies. Where the price to watch a football game is pocket change and the store hands out magazines like food samples. Who is the new power, magnet of media, and ruler of revenue? The teacher.Now, at first, this situation may be bizzare, imagining your Math teacher as the new Lebron James or the Spelling Bee as big as the Super Bowl. But, ask yourself, why adults who kick/throw/hit a ball, or real-life action figures, rolling in more bread annually, than a baker, much less a teacher, would see in their life?Honestly, I’m surprised there needs to be a debate about raising a teacher’s salary from the abysmal $40-$50k range. Just consider their line of work: mentoring future generations, who are currently irritating kids. As in any job, the quality of educators vary, but employing a merit system would reward teachers who already engage students, plus convince others to improve their methods. However, the current system has caused schools to sacrifice salary/supplies for years, building a “martyr mentality”, according to Mr. Karvelis. Unfortunately, this mindset compels many people considering teaching to search instead for a more lucrative profession. Meanwhile, government expenses surge in other areas deemed more important to our future. As mentioned in the article, politicians must realize that this issue isn’t partisan, it’s just common sense._________AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS