AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionAre you watching the 2018 Winter Olympics? If so, what has been most striking to you about this season’s Games? Who have had the most notable athletic performances so far?After nearly 100 years of constant improvement, we seem to be entering a new phase in sports: Peak Olympics, when the steady march of human progress reaches its final plateau. Let’s consider the history of speedskating results.Speedskaters have become much faster over the years.But around 2005, their progress plateaued.Researchers have found similar plateaus in the 800-meter run, high jump, shot put and signs of plateauing in many other sports.Athletes still set some records, but barely. Last year, the Russian skater Denis Yuskov broke the nearly decade-old 1,500-meter race record, shaving 0.02 seconds off the finishing time.… Without as much of a physical edge over previous generations, athletes found gains using a new weapon: technology.In speedskating, the best example is the clap skate. Used widely by 1997, its hinged blade maintains contact with the ice longer during each stride, resulting in a more powerful thrust.Bodysuits of the future could include 3D printing, which is being used to make track apparel with raised protrusions that produce “an incredible reduction in drag,” according to researcher Len Brownlie of Simon Fraser University, who also consults for Nike.— Are you convinced by the authors that we have reached “Peak Olympics”? Why or why not? What hard or anecdotal evidence do you have to support or challenge their opinion?— Can you think of any other examples of sports that use technology? How do they use it? How has it changed the sport over time?— Do you think athletes should be able to use technology to improve their performance? Or does it give some athletes an unfair advantage? Does it diminish or strengthen individuals’ talent and the sport over all? Why do you think so?— If you do think technology is acceptable in sports, should there be any limits on the amount or type of equipment that athletes can use? Is there any advancement that could be considered going too far or cheating? Or is it all fair game? Why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS