AdvertisementSupported bySportingWe all have our reasons for watching sports, but at the forefront of mine is watching incredible athletes do incredible things. They do things we cannot, and it is magical.I want to see them thrive. I do not want to see them struggle for air. Thursday afternoon in Melbourne at the Australian Open, the French tennis player Gaël Monfils, in the middle of a tense match against Novak Djokovic, one of the greatest players of all time, begged for help. The surface temperature on the court registered at 69 degrees Celsius, or 156 degrees Fahrenheit.“I’m sick to the stomach,” Monfils told the judges. Monfils, one of the most athletic and fit players on the tour, at the year’s first major, wasn’t just hot. He was scared.“I’m tired and dizzy,” he went on. He thought he had a small heat stroke for 40 minutes. He staggered off the court between sets, gasping. “I’m going to collapse.”The response of the chair umpire in charge of the event was not “Here is some water” or “O.K., let’s take a break” or even “Good news, Gaël: This place has a roof. Let’s close it.”It was instead a reminder that players are allowed only a 25-second break between points, so get back out there.Afterward, Djokovic, who won the match but looked as haggard and sickly as Monfils did, said: “There is a limit and that is a level of, I guess, tolerance between being fit and being, I think, in danger in terms of health. Today was right at the limit.”When you watch two world-class professionals barely able to lift their rackets in one of their sport’s signature events, you can’t help but wonder what, exactly, we’re trying to prove here. A reason we watch sports is to see the planet’s most talented, dedicated athletes perform at the highest levels, to see true physical genius in their chosen pursuits. It is not to watch them perform at a fraction of their abilities because they can hardly stand.There has long been a fetishization of athletes being able to withstand the elements, to overcome them, en route to victory — the marathoner who survives 100-degree temperatures, the football player who braves frigid weather to win the big game.Would you appreciate, say, a Daniel Day-Lewis performance more because it was done in a storage freezer, or in the middle of a blazing desert? (Never mind that, knowing him, he’d probably still win an Oscar.) Isn’t the art itself enough?To watch the Monfils-Djokovic match was to watch two men wilting and withering away; neither looked like even close to the star tennis players we’ve seen them both be for years. Closing the roof and providing a climate-controlled environment — to play every sport in optimal conditions for athletes to thrive — wouldn’t just be more humane to the players, it would be far more enjoyable to watch.We want to see athletes do incredible things that we cannot. We do not want to see them begging for a break so that they do not collapse. Sports aren’t endurance tests. They’re entertainment. What’s best for the athlete is, helpfully, also what’s best for us.Will Leitch is a senior writer for Sports on Earth, a contributing editor for New York magazine, a contributor to Sports Illustrated and the founder of Deadspin.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS