AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionWill you watch any of the 2018 Winter Olympics, which begin Feb. 8 in Pyeongchang, South Korea?Which competitions interest you? Which sports will you follow in the news, if any, and why?Snowboarding comes from the same place surfing does: Hawaii. By which I mean it was invented by someone from Hawaii. Or at least, by a person who had relocated to Hawaii and later become a cultural figure there. The island never gets credit. People have done research on the sport’s early history, but somehow this all-important first chapter has been lost. The people in Hawaii went through hell a couple of weeks ago, as many readers know. For about 40 minutes they lived with the belief that a ballistic missile was coming to wipe them out. They started calling one another to say goodbye. Hawaii: Accept this small restoration of roots as a gesture of solidarity, an arm around your shoulder on the curb outside the gas station as we say, “What happened in there was not cool.”The history of snowboarding, or as it was known then, “snurfing” (i.e., snow-surfing), does not begin in Michigan in the 1960s with boards made by a guy named Sherman Poppen. It does not even begin, as revisionists will tell you, in Colorado in 1939, with a thing called the Bunker Sno-Surf. It happened a full year before, in 1938, in Yosemite National Park. A slight young man named Robert Trumbull, a Honolulu newspaper editor who wrote a weather column under the byline Sol Pluvius (Rainy Sun), was on vacation. Chicago-born, Trumbull had seen plenty of snow, and he had been surfing. That was the all-important crossing of the wires. “Yesterday Sol showed the natives a new trick,” reported The Honolulu Advertiser, “snow-surfing, or as Sol called it, ‘snurfing.’ ” He coined the word.That may all be sports trivia, but it’s about to become important trivia, because soon, in this very winter of 2018 — 80 years after Trumbull’s breakthrough — will occur the Olympic debut of a sport known as “big-air snowboarding,” which is the snurfing equivalent of big-wave surfing. It is best described as the most beautiful, insane, stupid, dangerous, death-wishing, insane and beautiful sport ever perpetrated on innocent spectators.Big air works like this: You stand at the top of a high, steep slope. You get going down it exceptionally fast. You hit a ramp, the kind of ramp you might use if you needed to jump your motorcycle over a canyon. When you fire off this ramp on your snurfer, having hit the lip of it with tremendous force, you fly into the air very high and far. Big-air boarders routinely find themselves 65 feet above the slope. They spin around and do tricks and flips. Weirdly, the tricks and flips often don’t even seem like that big a deal, the boarders are up so high. Imagine yourself in one of those zero-gravity simulator planes. You would be flipping all around and making cool moves, but you wouldn’t be proud of yourself, because your great-grandmother could do the same thing.Death is always near where big air is getting caught. For that matter, regular old small-air snowboarding can be plenty life-threatening. Granted, most of the deaths are avalanche-related. Some result from helicopter crashes, when riders are searching for untouched snow in the high mountain passes. One biggie that is more clearly attributable to human error: collisions — most often between a rider and a stationary object, like a tree or a finish-line pillar (the Swiss champion Daniel Loetscher died in the latter way).— Do you agree that snowboarding should be an Olympic sport? Why or why not?— What winter sports are you most excited about watching — either during the Olympics, or in general, and why?— Which other sports would you add to the Winter Games, and why?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS