AdvertisementSupported bySAN FRANCISCO — Facebook overhauled its structure on Tuesday into three new divisions and shuffled the leadership of its key products, in one of its biggest reorganizations.The moves happened at the direction of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said a person with knowledge of the changes, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to discuss them. The reorganization was intended to streamline the company and clarify who oversees what after a long period of growth and numerous acquisitions, according to another person involved.Facebook now plans to organize its product and engineering teams under three new categories, grouping its biggest moneymaking services together and separating them from its moonshot technologies.One new group will focus on Facebook’s key products, including the social network itself, Instagram, Messenger and WhatsApp, all of which generate the most revenue for the company. The second will concentrate on emerging technologies such as virtual reality and artificial intelligence. The third will be centered on ads, personnel, security and growth.Facebook’s key products group will be run by Chris Cox, its chief product officer. The emerging technologies division will be led by Mike Schroepfer, the chief technology officer. And Javier Olivan, a vice president of growth, will lead the final group.Other executives are changing jobs as part of the shifts. WhatsApp, for instance, will now be led by Chris Daniels, a Facebook executive who was previously tasked with bringing new people online through a free or affordable version of Facebook called Internet.org.The roles of the company’s top two leaders — Mr. Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer — remain unchanged. Ms. Sandberg’s business teams are unaffected by the restructuring.Ari Ratner, a former Obama administration official who now runs Inside Revolution, a strategic communications firm, said the restructuring would likely have little impact on the root issues that Facebook has been grappling with.This “will have minimal impact on the issues themselves,” said Mr. Ratner. “If you want to send the message things will be different, I’m not sure if that accomplishes much.”Under Facebook’s new emerging technologies group, Mr. Zuckerberg has also created a new team focused on blockchain, a digital ledger that underpins virtual currencies like Bitcoin. The group will be led by David Marcus, who had been overseeing Facebook Messenger, with the mandate of examining how Facebook can incorporate blockchain.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS