AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinGood Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• T-Mobile and Sprint have their eye on regulators.• HNA is set to drop its pursuit of SkyBridge Capital• How close are the U.S. and Europe to a trade war?AdvertisementAdvertisementBut from that, Mr. Legere sought to change the way U.S. wireless providers did business:• Lowering prices• Ending some long-term contract requirements• Offering unlimited data plans“The company took off like a rocketship and has sustained that momentum ever since the AT&T merger was blocked,” the analyst Craig Moffett of the research firm MoffettNathanson told me in an interview.More on the legacy of Mr. Legere, from my and Cecilia’s story on the deal:Those policies helped T-Mobile add nearly 40 million customers over the last five years, with 5 million new customers added last year alone. AT&T, Verizon and Sprint all followed suit, and in recent years the overall price of basic wireless plans has stayed flat or fallen, according to Obama-era regulators.The Un-carrier campaign helped propel T-Mobile ahead of Sprint in 2015. As of Dec. 31., the company had 58.7 million retail subscribers, compared to Sprint’s 40.9 million. T-Mobile’s market value also outstripped that of Sprint’s, contributing to the structure of Sunday’s deal: Mr. Legere would become C.E.O. of the combined company, which would keep the T-Mobile name.In an ironic twist, completion of the Sprint deal would put T-Mobile ahead of its former suitor, AT&T, in terms of retail subscribers. AT&T had 93.2 million at the end of 2017.But Mr. Moffett said that the very success of Mr. Legere and T-Mobile could pose problems for the Sprint deal, since it proves that regulators’ opposition to the two companies’ effort to merge in 2014 was justified.When I asked about the tweet in a phone interview on Sunday — which also involved Marcelo Claure, Sprint’s C.E.O. — Mr. Legere chuckled. “You’re expecting me to remember tweets from 2014?” he responded.— Michael de la Merced“The 5G aspects that are critical for the country and critical for us really was the flipping point as to this is the time.”“Services are going to be broadened, prices are going to go down, speeds are going to go up. The 5G capability is going to be beyond anything the United States has seen before. Jobs are going to go up from day one.“If you liked the competition before, you’re going to love what’s coming with this one. ”AdvertisementT-Mobile agreed to buy Sprint in an all-stock deal, which valued Sprint at $26.5 billion or $6.62 a share. At that deal price, Mr. Claure’s long-term award of 10 million Sprint shares is worth $66.2 million. Those shares “will fully vest if he’s terminated within 18 months of the deal’s completion, or if his responsibilities change materially.”He also “is eligible for cash severance of about $11.6 million and $54,000 of other benefits.”So far this year, companies and other buyers have announced $1.68 trillion of acquisitions, according to Dealogic. That’s the biggest total through the first four months of a year on record, topping the $1.64 trillion of deals struck in 2007.Merger activity is also on a record pace in the United States. Acquirers have struck $674 billion of deals for U.S. companies through April 30, the highest level on record and exceeding the $607 billion agreed to through the same period in 2007.Whether they will succeed is another matter. Michael and Cecilia Kang point out that while the F.C.C. commissioner, Ajit Pai, has signaled an open mind toward mergers, many antitrust staffers at the Justice Department are the same people who opposed the deal in 2014.No matter how much hyperbole Sprint and T-Mobile expend, it is hard to see how the deal will pass muster with regulators.“It would not surprise me if they can come up with an economist with a model that says this is all unicorns and cupcakes,” said Michael Kades, a former lawyer at the F.T.C. who is now the director of markets and competition policy for Washington Center for Equitable Growth. “But the market concentration is presumptively anticompetitive.”AdvertisementFrom AnnaMaria Andriotis, Telis Demos and Emily Glazer of the WSJ:The financial companies have explored creating a new credit-card code for firearms dealers, similar to how they code restaurants, or department stores, according to people familiar with the matter. Another idea would require merchants to share information about specific firearm products consumers are buying, some of the people said.If the credit card companies and banks agreed, they could come up with a series of subcodes that would identify retailers that sold guns under a “best practices” policy — like the policy that Citigroup proposed or the one that Walmart and Dick’s follow — and the ones that don’t. It would add transparency to the process, and it would give banks that issue credit cards the opportunity to decide which retailers they wanted to associate with.But such a move might concern opponents of gun control, who worry that keeping tabs on firearms sales would be contrary to the government’s hands-off approach to monitoring such transactions. And then there are general privacy concerns: Adam Levitin, a law professor at Georgetown, told the WSJ: “There’s the slippery slope danger if it’s guns today maybe it is pornography tomorrow and the day after it’s right-wing literature.”— Michael de la MercedThe country says it will refuse to discuss President Trump’s two toughest trade demands when American officials arrive in Beijing this week, potentially derailing the high-level talks.Keith Bradsher of the NYT reports:The Chinese government is publicly calling for flexibility on both sides. But senior Beijing officials do not plan to discuss the two biggest requests that the Trump administration has made over the past several months, according to people involved in Chinese policymaking. Those include a mandatory $100 billion cut in America’s $375 billion annual trade deficit with China and curbs on Beijing’s $300 billion plan to bankroll the country’s industrial upgrade into advanced technologies like artificial intelligence, semiconductors, electric cars and commercial aircraft.What’s behind China’s stance? Beijing feels its economy has become big enough and resilient enough to stand up to the United States.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Koum, who co-founded WhatsApp and had insisted that strong encryption be built into the service, was perturbed by the amount of data that Facebook collected on people and had advocated for stronger protections of that information, the executive said.AdvertisementMr. Koum’s exit is the highest-profile departure from Facebook after months of controversy at the social network.The gathering reliably draws leaders from Wall Street, Hollywood and sports to Los Angeles to discuss trade, health care, investing and more. This year’s conference will touch on hot topics like the trade tensions between the U.S. and China, the #MeToo movement, the planned talks with North Korea, and the backlash against Silicon Valley.Attendees include Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Tim Sloan of Wells Fargo, Leon Black of Apollo Global Management and Eric Schmidt of Google.AdvertisementThe worries of some critics, according to Nathaniel Popper:Countries that devote more resources to the process could successfully push their preferred cryptographic algorithms to be the standards, potentially creating so-called back doors that could be used in the future to spy on blockchain activity.AdvertisementMore from Julie Creswell, Kevin Draper and Rachel Abrams:While Nike executives have told investors that the women’s category was a crucial part of its revenue growth strategy, former employees said it was not given the budget it needed to roll out the sophisticated marketing campaigns that were the hallmark of traditional men’s sports, like basketball.AdvertisementGo to Home Page »