AdvertisementSupported byThe clear idea behind the suggestion — which Mr. Trump is also said to be weighing — is that ousting Mr. Rosenstein would enable the White House to put the criminal investigations encircling the president’s associates on a tighter leash, or even to shut them down.Here is a look at some of the issues at stake.A longtime Justice Department official, Mr. Rosenstein was not part of Mr. Trump’s inner circle before Attorney General Jeff Sessions persuaded the president to designate him as deputy.After Mr. Sessions recused himself from investigations related to the 2016 election, Mr. Rosenstein became acting attorney general for those matters. He appointed Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, to scrutinize ties between the Trump campaign and Russia’s interference in the election. He signed off as Mr. Mueller’s focus expanded to whether Mr. Trump committed obstruction of justice and whether Mr. Trump’s onetime campaign manager, Paul Manafort, committed crimes related to his work for Ukraine’s pro-Russian government. Mr. Rosenstein also approved the decision to get search warrants for Mr. Cohen’s files.Mr. Trump has bitterly denounced Mr. Sessions’s recusal, saying he needs an attorney general who will protect him.Mr. Rosenstein could have expanded Mr. Mueller’s jurisdiction to include that matter, but instead he apparently handed it to a different office. As a result, there is now a separate prosecutorial team that has seen evidence about matters close to the president that it — and the federal magistrate judge who issued the search warrant — found worth investigating.However, the impression created by that article appears to have been somewhat overstated. Mr. Schneiderman has no clear jurisdiction to file charges in some of the potential crimes at issue in the core Justice Department investigations, like federal election law offenses. Law enforcement officials familiar with the talks cautioned that neither side was routinely sharing investigative materials.It might make it easier to constrain the investigations or even to fire Mr. Mueller — and now, perhaps, Mr. Khuzami, too. Mr. Rosenstein has said he will refuse any order to fire Mr. Mueller if he did not believe the special counsel committed misconduct, citing a Justice Department regulation that says such a prosecutor may be removed only by the attorney general and only for good cause.A successor who is more of a loyalist to Mr. Trump might be more amenable to interpreting Mr. Mueller’s jurisdiction narrowly or to firing him, either by declaring that Mr. Mueller has overstepped or by removing the regulation that protects him from arbitrary removal.No. In and of itself, the removal of Mr. Rosenstein — or Mr. Mueller and Mr. Khuzami — would not stop the law enforcement officials working for them from continuing to pursue those cases.Ben Protess contributed reporting from New York.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS