AdvertisementSupported byFor Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, it was a way to protect themselves from pesky investors interested in short-term gains, even as shareholder advocates blasted the arrangements for creating unaccountable leaders.The founder-empowered structure at the heart of many tech companies is known as a multiclass stock structure, under which those who started the company own a certain class of stock that gives them outsize voting power even after it goes public.At Zynga, Mark Pincus, the company’s founder, has now converted some of his shares that carry more voting clout — known as Class B and C shares — into common Class A shares. The conversion reduces his overall voting power at Zynga to about 10 percent from about 70 percent. Mr. Pincus will not see any change in his economic interest in the company from the conversion.In a phone interview, Mr. Pincus said his divorce, which he described as amicable, was “not part of or relevant to the announcement” of his conversion of his stock.Rather, Mr. Pincus said, he made the decision in consultation with Zynga’s board, partly because of growing criticism of dual- and multiclass share structures. As part of the change, Mr. Pincus said, he will leave Zynga as an employee — he was executive chairman — and become nonexecutive chairman of the company’s board of directors.“We think the company doesn’t benefit anymore from a multiclass structure,” Mr. Pincus said.Dual-class voting structures have been around for decades and have been especially popular at media companies, such as News Corporation and The New York Times Company.The vast majority of companies that go public have a single class of stock, where one share equals one vote. About 81 percent of companies that went public last year had single-class arrangements, according to the Council of Institutional Investors, a nonprofit association of pension funds and other large investors.Charles Elson, a corporate governance professor at the University of Delaware, said that in his 20 years of tracking issues around multiclass stock structures, Mr. Pincus was the first public company executive he could recall who voluntarily reduced his voting power so dramatically.“It’s quite an unusual move, but it’s a welcome move,” Mr. Elson said.Multiclass structures are bad for ordinary investors because they make founders unaccountable, he added. “If a C.E.O. does a poor job, he’s not going to fire himself,” he said. “The problems it creates far outweigh any benefits.”In response to some of the criticism of multiclass structures, more companies are going public with provisions that automatically convert their shares to a single class after a period of time, anywhere from five to 20 years. Fitbit, the maker of fitness trackers, went public in 2015 with a 12-year provision that sunsets its dual-class stock, while the cloud software company Okta went public last year with a similar 10-year provision.Mr. Pincus said his voting control at Zynga had not given him veto power over outside offers to acquire the company, though it did give him the ability to replace board members. He said he had never exercised that right.When asked if Zynga could consider acquisition offers more easily now that Mr. Pincus had relinquished most of his voting power, Mr. Gibeau said, “That’s not our mission — our focus is to grow the company.”Mr. Pincus said he intended to devote more time to investing in start-ups. He said he was particularly interested in companies focused on the blockchain, the technology that’s behind electronic currencies like Bitcoin, but could also have broader applications.Giving up his control of Zynga, Mr. Pincus said, will “create more space between me and the company whenever I go launch new products.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS