AdvertisementSupported byLONDON — There’s a new gold rush. But this precious metal doesn’t actually exist.Consider this Twitter post from Mr. Prince on Jan. 6:In fact, Distributed Gallery had no connection with the American artist. This virtual dealership and its “Ready Made Token” are instead a playful experiment devised by Olivier Sarrouy, a philosophy and sociology lecturer at the University Rennes 2 in France, along with three friends.“We were trying to explore how a cryptocurrency could relate to scarcity in the art market,” Mr. Sarrouy, 32, said in a telephone interview. “It reinterpreted Marcel Duchamp’s gesture of the ready-made in a radical way.”But why Richard Prince?“To make a ready-made we needed a signature, but we were no one in the art world,” Mr. Sarrouy said, adding that he and his friends had chosen Richard Prince “because he is the king of appropriation art.”“Our artwork has been created by our own Richard Prince,” he said. “And then there is the famous Richard Prince.”Mr. Prince declined to comment for this column.“The project is interesting,” said Judy Mam, an organizer of the Rare Digital Art Festival, referring to the Distributed Gallery’s Duchampian token. “But we’re talking about people who are putting up money,” she added. “That’s when the theoretical aspect of the project comes crashing down.” It no longer features in the festival program.As of Wednesday, Distributed Gallery’s auction had attracted four participants, who bid in Ether up to a value of about $2,600. Three bidders who thought they were competing for a work by the “famous” Mr. Prince have received or are in the process of receiving a refund, according to Mr. Sarrouy. “The last one has bet knowing what this project was all about,” he said, “and is still the highest bidder.”Meanwhile, delegates at the Rare Digital Art Festival planned to discuss how to take memes and the other infinitely copyable stuff of the internet and turn them into “rare, tradable blockchain assets.”Mack Flavelle, co-founder of CryptoKitties, which is based in Vancouver, British Columbia, thinks that digital art could be a major beneficiary of the explosion in virtual wealth.“There’s not that much that people can do with cryptocurrency,” said Mr. Flavelle, 37, who planned to attend the festival on Saturday. “We gave them something fun and useful to do with their Ethereum. It’s early days, but this could happen in the blossoming art space as well. The blockchain is an entirely new medium for art.”Plenty of people think cryptocurrencies will collapse under the weight of financial speculation. But if they don’t, they might just turn out to be the art world’s big game-changer.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS