AdvertisementSupported bySAN JERÓNIMO COYULA, Mexico — This ragged town at the foot of the smoking Popocatépetl volcano is one of the communities in Mexico with deep ties to the United States. Since the 1980s, thousands of its residents have trekked to what they call El Norte, particularly to New York City and the Hamptons of Long Island. For decades, migrants have mixed the cement, laid the bricks and painted the walls of grand houses there.Many families here depend on the remittances sent to them by relatives who have migrated north to buy medicine for the old and schoolbooks for the young. Family members in the United States use their earnings to help fund a free town festival every September.Unsurprisingly, when I ask a dozen people from the plaza to the main street what they think of President Trump, they all have negative opinions. “Trump is a hypocrite — he employs Mexicans for his buildings and then he attacks us,” said Humberto Ramos, a stocky 40-year-old with cement stains on his overalls. “The Mexicans are the ones that work the hardest there. We have helped build the country.”“There was a lot of fear and panic, but things haven’t really changed for most people,” said Eric González, a 35-year-old electrician carrying a backpack full of tools. Mr. González labored on Long Island for nine years, but came home in 2009 to start a business and look after his aging parents. He still has four brothers and a sister working in New York and sending money back.“The attacks have been more psychological,” he said. “People see stories on the news and get scared. But you have to look at the big picture.”This gap between rhetoric and reality reflects the deep-rooted relationship between the United States and Mexico and the confusing agenda of the Trump presidency. During his campaign, Mr. Trump promised to hit Mexico with a triple whammy: building a wall and making Mexico pay for it; deporting up to three million migrants; and rewriting or scrapping the North American Free Trade Agreement. The combined effect could have thrown Mexico into deep recession as it dealt with millions of deportees and a diplomatic crisis with the world’s No. 1 military power.Of course, the consequences of Mr. Trump’s stance toward Mexico and migrants may still be to come. Negotiations over Nafta continue, and Mr. Trump continues to vow that he will pull out of the deal if he doesn’t get what he likes. Immigration authorities may conjure up new pretexts to send home people in greater numbers. The deportation of hundreds of thousands of young people who have grown up in the United States would be a humanitarian disaster.While the electrician, Mr. González, was one of eight siblings, he has only one child himself. He makes 250 pesos, or about $13, a day in Mexico, less than the $17 hourly wage he made painting houses on Long Island. But as we stare at the towering Popo volcano, he says he has no plans to return north. “I am my own boss here, I want to build my business,” he told me. “And this is a beautiful place to be.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS